
[Transcriber's note: Original spelling variations--e.g. "poeple"--have
not been standardized. Characters with macrons have been marked in
brackets with an equal sign, as [=e] for a letter e with a macron on
top; [)u] shows a character with breve. Underscores have been used to
indicate _italic_ fonts. A list of volumes and pages in "Notes and
Queries" has been added at the end.]




NOTES AND QUERIES:

A MEDIUM OF INTER-COMMUNICATION

FOR

LITERARY MEN, ARTISTS, ANTIQUARIES, GENEALOGISTS, ETC.

"When found, make a note of."--CAPTAIN CUTTLE.

VOL. V.--No. 133. SATURDAY, MAY 15. 1852.

Price Fourpence. Stamped Edition, 5_d._




CONTENTS.

                                                                Page


      NOTES:--

      Lord King, the Sclaters, Dr. Kellet, &c.                   457

      Passage from Dover to Calais, by J. Lewelyn Curtis         459

      Popular Stories of the English Peasantry,
      Nos. II. and III.                                          459

      Goldsmith's History of Mecklenburgh, by
      James Crossley                                             461

      Folk Lore:--Eagles' Feathers--East Wind on Candlemas
      Day--Placing Snuff on a Corpse                             462

      On a Passage in King Henry IV., Part I., Act V. Sc. 2.,
      by S. W. Singer                                            462

      Minor Notes:--Author of "Thirty days hath September"--"When
      found, make a note of"--The Dodo, existing Specimen of--A
      Proof that a Man can be his own Grandfather--Memoria
      Technica--Portrait of George Fox--Lines on Crawfurd of
      Kilbirnie                                                  463

      QUERIES:--

      Where was Anne Boleyn buried?                              464

      Tortoiseshell Tom Cats                                     465

      Minor Queries:--Oasis--Ballad on Shakspeare--Dr.
      Toby Matthew--Hart and Mohun--Burial without Religious
      Service--Ganganelli's Bible--Wherland Family--Flemish
      Proverb quoted by Chaucer--Derivation of the Word
      "Callis," an Almshouse--Nashe's "Terrors of the
      Night"--Did Orientals ever wear Spurs?--Badges of
      Noblemen in the Fifteenth Century--Sir Roger de
      Coverley--Lines on Elizabeth--Twyford--Irish Titles
      of Honour: The Knight of Kerry; The O'Conor Don: The
      O'Gorman Mahon--Sir Hobbard de Hoy--The Moon and her
      Influences--St. Ulrich's, Augsburg--The late Mr. Miller
      of Craigentinny--Whipping Boys--Edwards of Essex           465

      MINOR QUERIES ANSWERED:--Polynesian Languages--Arms
      of Thompson--The Silent Woman--Review of Hewett's
      Memoirs of Rustat--Robert Recorde--Strange Opinions
      of great Divines--Inquisitiones Post Mortem--Derivation
      of Carmarthen--"Medi√¶val and Middle Ages"--Garlands
      hung up in Churches                                        468

      REPLIES:--

      Ancient Timber Town-halls, by J. B. Whitborne              470

      Old Sir Ralph Vernon                                       471

      Old Trees: Fairlop Oak, by Shirley Hibberd                 471

      Taylor Family, by J. B. Whitborne                          473

      Replies to Minor Queries:--Portrait of Mesmer--Sleeveless
      --Barbarian--"O wearisome condition"--The Meaning of "to
      be a Deacon"--Dr. Richard Morton--Moravian Hymns--Junius
      Rumours--Wyned--The Tradescants--Movable Organs and
      Pulpits--Scologlandis and Scologi--St. Botolph--Which
      are the Shadows?--Nightingale and Thorn--Groom of the
      Stole--The De Clares--Book of Jasher--Chantrey's Sleeping
      Children--Daniel De Foe, &c.                               473

      MISCELLANEOUS:--

      Notes on Books, &c.                                        477

      Books and Odd Volumes wanted                               478

      Notices to Correspondents                                  478

      Advertisements                                             479




Notes.


LORD KING, THE SCLATERS, DR. KELLET, ETC.

_The Original Draught of the Primitive Church_, 8vo. Lond. 1717, written
in reply to _An Inquiry into the Constitution and Discipline of the
Primitive Church_, by Mr. Peter King, afterwards Lord Chancellor [from
1725 to 1733], and Baron King of Ockham, is usually attributed to Mr.
William Sclater. Respecting this writer, whose work attained and has
preserved considerable celebrity, and respecting others of his name, I
forward some Notes which I have met with, and beg anxiously to solicit
others from your correspondents.

In Lathbury's _History of the Nonjurors_, cap. vii. p. 303., he is thus
mentioned:

  "Sclater at length stepped forth [to reply to King's _Inquiry_],
  and it is said that King was not only convinced by his arguments,
  but that he made him an offer of a living in the Church of
  England. Sclater was a nonjuring clergyman; consequently he could
  not accept preferment in the Anglican Church, which involved the
  taking the oath of allegiance. All the arguments in King's book
  were considered with the greatest candour and ability. The author
  was a man of singular modesty, of unaffected piety, and of
  uncommon learning, of which this work affords abundant evidence."

Dr. Hinds, the present Bishop of Norwich, in his _History of the Rise
and early Progress of Christianity_, Preface, page xv., 1st edit., thus
speaks:

  "Lord King wrote his once celebrated _Inquiry_ in an honest and
  candid spirit, as the result testifies; but his research was
  partial, and led him to adopt the congregational principle of the
  Independents. In Mr. Sclater's reply, principles scarcely less
  erroneous may be pointed out; yet, as far as the controversy went,
  he was right, and his opponent, by an act of candour perhaps
  unexampled, acknowledged himself convinced, and gave Sclater
  preferment for his victory."

Lord Campbell, however, in his _Lives of the Chancellors_, vol. iv. p.
369., discredits the idea of this conversion. He says:

  "This work [the _Inquiry_] made a great sensation, passed through
  several editions, and called forth many learned and able answers,
  particularly one by a nonjuring clergyman of the name of Sclater,
  which is said (_I believe without authority_) even to have made a
  convert of King himself."

These are the only notices of Sclater which have fallen in my way.[1] I
should remark, that his _Original Draught_ is anonymous. He merely
styles himself "a Presbyter of the Church of England."

  [Footnote 1: [We have met with two other accounts of the
  Chancellor's conversion, both varying in a few particulars with
  the extracts given by our correspondent. Archdeacon Daubeny, in
  his work on _Schism_, p. 235., says, "Lord Chancellor King was at
  one time of his life so determined an advocate for
  Presbyterianism, and considered himself so perfectly acquainted
  with the merits of that subject, that he published a book upon it.
  To this book an answer was written by one Sclater, a clergyman,
  under the title of _A Draught of the Primitive Church_, which
  brought the point at issue within a short compass, and decided it
  in the most satisfactory manner. This book the author did not live
  to publish. It happened, however, that the author's manuscript
  after his death, came into the hands of the Lord Chancellor, who
  was so perfectly satisfied with its contents, that he published
  Sclater's manuscript at his own expense, as the strongest proof
  that could be given to the world of the alteration of his own
  views on the subject in question." The other version occurs in the
  _Gentleman's Mag._ for Oct. 1792, p. 910.:--"There is a
  circumstance relating to Lord King's book, and Mr. Sclater's
  answer to it, very little known, but which to me comes vouched
  with unquestionable authenticity. Before Mr. Sclater's book was
  published, it was read in manuscript by Lord King himself, it
  having been seized, among other papers, in the house of Mr.
  Nathanael Spinkes, a Nonjuring bishop, and carried to Lord King,
  then Chancellor, who very politely returned it, confessing that it
  was a very sufficient confutation of those parts of his book which
  it undertook to answer; that it was written with equal Christian
  temper and moderation, and unanswerable strength of argument; and
  desiring or consenting that it might be published."--ED.]]

Of another William Sclater I find two notices in _Miscellanies of
Divinitie divided into three Books, by Edvvard Kellet, Doctour of
Divinitie, and one of the Canons of the Cathedrall Church of Exon_, fol.
Cambridge, 1635:

  "Melchisedec was a figure of Christ, and tithes by an everlasting
  law were due to the priesthood of Melchisedec, as is unanswerably
  proved by my reverend friend (now a blessed saint, Doctor
  Sclater), against all sacrilegious church-robbers."

  B. i. c. v. p. 83.

Again:

  "When that man of happy memory, the late right Reverend, now most
  blessed Saint, Arthur Lake, Lord Bishop of Bath and Wells [from
  1616 to 1626], appointed Doctour Sclater (now also a saint in
  Heaven, then my most loving friend, and sometime fellow-collegian
  in the two royall colledges at Eaton and Cambridge) with myself to
  confer with an Anabaptisticall woman, we heard her determine great
  Depths of Divinitie as confidently as ever St. Paul did, though he
  was taught by Christ himself, and as nimbly as ever an ape crackt
  nuts," &c.

  _Ibid._ c. viii. p. 151.

This Dr. William Sclater, then, was of Eton, and Fellow of King's
College; was the author of a work on Tithes; and probably beneficed in
the diocese of Bath and Wells during the episcopate of Lake, who
preceded Laud in that see. To him also we may probably ascribe _The
Exposition on the first three Chapters of Romans_, published by a person
of this name in 1611. As in 1635 he is spoken of as dead, he could, if
connected at all with the author of _The Original Draught_, hardly have
been his father. He may have been his grandfather.

There is another Sclater, who may have been father of Lord King's
opponent,--Dr. Edward Sclater, who in 1686 published _Consensus Veterum;
or the Reasons for his Conversion to the Catholic Faith_. He was
incumbent of Esher and of Putney, and, as such, obtained a curious
dispensation from all pains, penalties, and forfeitures of non-residence
on his benefices, accompanied by a license to keep a school, and to take
"boarders, tablers, or sojourners," direct from the king, James II. This
document may be found in Gutch's _Collectanea Curiosa_, No. 36., vol. i.
p. 290.; and the concurrence of its date (May 3, 1686) with that of the
_Reasons for his Conversion_ is of ominous significancy. In 1687 he
published another work, entitled _The Primitive Fathers no Protestants_;
to which Edward Gee replied in his _Primitive Fathers no Papists_, in
1688. Several other tracts, addressed by Gee to this convert to the
religion of the sovereign, show that there must have been a smart and
long-continued controversy between them.[2]

  [Footnote 2: [On the 5th of May, 1689, being Rogation Sunday, Dr.
  Edward Sclater made a public recantation of the Romish religion,
  and was readmitted into the bosom of the English Church, in the
  chapel at the Savoy. The sermon was preached by Burnet, the
  newly-consecrated Bishop of Salisbury. (Wood's _Athen√¶_, vol. iv.
  p. 700. (Bliss.))--ED.]]

Having contributed all that I can collect respecting the Sclaters, I
should be obliged to any of your correspondents who may be able to add
any further notices, or to show whether they were connected or not as
members of the same family.

Dr. Edward Kellet is mentioned by Wood, in _Fasti Oxonienses_, anno
1616, as rector of Ragborough and Croscombe, in Somersetshire. There is
no place in Somersetshire of the former name, but there is one which
bears the latter. I conceive, therefore, this to be a misprint for
_Bagborough_ and _Crowcombe_, parishes nearly contiguous in the western
part of the county.

The _Gentleman's Magazine_ for February 1841 contains a notice of a work
by Edward Kellet, entitled _Tricoenium Christi in nocte proditionis su√¶:
The Threefold Supper of Christ_, &c.: folio, Lond. 1641. His antipathy
to tobacco must have been worthy of that of good King James himself;
for, starting from the Feast of the Passover, he delivers the following
violent counter-blast against the weed, and those who use it:

  "The earth, ayre, and water afford not enough for their gluttony,
  and though sawcy Art second Nature, nor eye nor desire is
  satisfyed: the creatures groane under this grosse abuse: these are
  swinish Epicures, prodigal consumers of God's blessings. Tobacco,
  the never unseasonable Tobacco, the all-usefull Tobacco, good for
  meate, drinke, and cloathing; good for cold, heate, and all
  diseases, this must sharpen their appetites before meate, must
  heate it at their meate, being the only curious antepast, sauce,
  and post-past; wine and beere must wash downe the stenche of that
  weede, and it again must dry up their moyst fumes."

To revert to the Sclaters, or to a name _idem sonans_. In the Hutton
Correspondence, as published by the Surtees Society, at p. 65., is a
letter of remonstrance, dated "10 Maye, 1582," addressed to Francis
Walsingham, by the Chapter of York, respecting a dispensation that had
been granted to "Mr. Doctor Gibson;" and among the signatures appears
that of George Slater, who, "as one of their companie," had been
despatched to deal personally "for the quietinge of the matter" with the
Archbishop of Canterbury and the Earl of Huntingdon, then President of
the North Mountstone.

    BALLIOLENSIS.


PASSAGE FROM DOVER TO CALAIS.

The charge for conveyance of passengers between Dover and Calais was
fixed by a statute made in the fourth year of the reign of Edward III.,
A.D. 1330, at sixpence for a foot passenger, and two shillings for a man
and horse, as may be seen in the following extract from this statute:

  "Item. Com avant ces heures homme a cheval soleit aver son passage
  de la meer a port de Dovre pur ii, _s._ et homme apee pur vi, _d._
  et ore denovel ont les gardiens de passage et passagers pris plus
  a grande damage de poeple; Si est accorde que en dit port et touz
  autres, et auxint en touz les autres passages de la terre,
  auxibien en ewes douces, come en braz de meer, les passauntz
  paient desore come ancienement soleint, et de plus ne soient
  charges, ne les passagers ne gardiens des passages nient plus ne
  preignent."

  _Statutes of the Realm_, vol. i. p. 262.

  "Item. Whereas before this time a horseman was wont to have his
  passage of the sea at the port of Dover for two shillings, and a
  man afoot for sixpence, and now of late have the guardians of
  passage and passagemen taken more, to the great damage of the
  people; so it is agreed that in the said port and all others, and
  also in all the other passages of the land, so well in fresh
  waters as in arms of the sea, the passengers shall pay henceforth
  as anciently they were wont, and more they shall not be charged,
  nor shall the passagemen nor guardians of the passages take any
  more."

The present steam-packet fares between Dover and Calais are, chief-cabin
eight shillings, fore-cabin six shillings, and horses twenty-five
shillings; _i.e._ for a man about _seven shillings_, and for a man and
horse about _thirty-two shillings_.

Hence it would appear, that the value of a shilling was sixteen times
greater, five hundred years since, than it is at present. A pound troy
of standard silver, from the Conquest to the 28th year of the reign of
Edward I., A.D. 1300, was coined into twenty shillings; and from that
time to the 23rd of Edward III., A.D. 1349, into twenty shillings and
three pence. The standard of silver coin was then 11 _oz._ 2 _dwts._
pure silver, and 18 _dwts._ alloy, as it is at present; but a pound troy
of standard silver is now coined into sixty-six shillings. Therefore,
without taking into consideration the smaller fractions of a penny, the
shilling, from the Conquest to the middle of the reign of Edward III.,
contained the same quantity of silver as do three shillings and three
pence halfpenny of our present money. The sixpence paid by a passenger
at the date of the above quoted statute, contained a quantity of silver
equal to that contained in _one shilling and seven pence three
farthings_; and the two shillings paid for the passage of a man and
horse contained a quantity of silver equal to that contained in _six
shillings and seven pence_ of our present coin of the realm.

Hence it appears that, whether it be for a man only, or for a man and
horse, we now pay, for a passage between Dover and Calais, nearly five
times as much silver as was paid for the same passage five or six
hundred years since. It would therefore seem, that the value of silver,
measured by this kind of labour, was then nearly five times greater than
its value in the present day.

I suspect however that silver was then really worth much more than five
times its present value; and in order to arrive at a more correct
conclusion, I shall be much obliged to any correspondent of "N. & Q."
who will inform me what were the usual fares by sailing-vessels before,
or at the time of, the introduction of steam-packets between Dover and
Calais.

    J. LEWELYN CURTIS.


POPULAR STORIES OF THE ENGLISH PEASANTRY, NO. II.

(_Continued from_ p. 363.)

I am much pleased with MR. STERNBERG'S Oxfordshire version of _Die kluge
Else_ (Vol. v., p. 363.). I have heard another in that county, and think
the variations may be acceptable to those who are interested in our
rather scanty country legends.

An old couple lived in the country on a nice bit of land of their own,
and they had an only daughter whose name was Mary, and she had a
sweetheart whose name was John. Now there was a garden at the back of
their house with a well in it. One day, as the old man was walking in
the garden, he thought a thought. He thought, "If John should have
Mary, and Mary should have a child, and the child was to go
tittle-tottle by the well, and to fall in, what a thing that would be;"
so he sat down and cried. A little while after the old woman came into
the garden and saw him, and asked him why he cried. And he told her he
had thought, "If John should have Mary, and Mary should have a child,
and the child should go tittle-tottle by the well, and fall in, what a
thing that would be." "So it would," said the old woman; and she sat
down and cried.

Mary arrives, hears the thought, and sits down and cries. John finds
them crying, and says he will put on a new pair of shoes, and if, by the
time they are worn out, he has not found three such big fools, he will
save the child's life by not marrying Mary. He puts on the shoes, and
sets out early the next morning.

Before he had gone far he came to a barn with the two doors wide open,
and saw a man hard at work with a shovel, as if he was a shovelling
something into the barn; but there was nothing in the shovel. "What be
ye doing of, Measter?" says John. "I be a shovelling the sunshine in to
dry the wheat as was carried in the wet." "What a fool ye be!" says
John; "why don't you take out the sheaves, and lay 'em in the sun?" "Oh,
God bless ye, Sir," says the man; "I wish ye'd come this way afore. Many
a hard day's work ye'd a saved me." So John cut a notch in his stick for
one fool, and went on.

He went a little further, and came to where a man was cutting at pebbles
with a knife. "What be ye at, Measter?" says John. "I be a cutting of
the pebbles to get at the kernels," says the man. "What a fool ye be!"
says John "why don't ye get a masonter's hammer and split 'em, and then
ye'll see whether there be any kernels or no." "Ah, God bless you, Sir,"
says the man "many a good knife ye'd a saved me if ye'd come this way
afore." So John made another notch for the second fool.

The third is drawing a cow up the ladder, to eat the tussock of grass
that grows every year in the thatch, and is equally thankful on being
advised to cut it down and give it to the cow; for "many a good cow ye'd
a saved me that I've throttled, if ye'd come this way afore." So John
cut the third notch; and finding that folly was not peculiar to the
family, went back and married Mary while his shoes were new. And they
lived very happy, and she put a rail round the well, and the child was
not drowned.

In this department of history, old women are the highest authorities,
and it is desirable to fix their localities as nearly as we can. I heard
the story from my nurse, a native of Souldern, Oxon., a village on the
borders of Northamptonshire, and from another of Bucknel, fourteen miles
north of Oxford.

A version of the _Froschk√∂nig_ is, or was, current in the same
neighbourhood.

There was a farmer that had an only daughter; and she was very handsome,
but proud. One day, when the servants were all afield, her mother sent
her to the well for a pitcher of water. When she had let down the
bucket, it was so heavy that she could hardly draw it up again; and she
was going to let loose of it, when a voice in the well said, "Hold tight
and pull hard, and good luck will come of it at last." So she held tight
and pulled hard; and when the bucket came up there was nothing in it but
a frog, and the frog said, "Thank you, my dear; I've been a long while
in the well, and I'll make a lady of you for getting me out." So when
she saw it was only a frog, she took no notice, but filled her pitcher
and went home.

Now, when they were at supper, there came a knock at the door, and
somebody outside said,--

      "Open the door, my dearest sweet one,
        And think of the well in the wood;
      Where you and I were together, love a keeping,
        And think of the well in the wood."

So she looked out of the window, and there was the frog in boots and
spurs. So says she, "I sha'n't open the door for a frog." Then says her
father, "Open the door to the gentleman. Who knows what it may come to
at last?" So she opened the door, and the frog came in. Then says the
frog,--

      "Set me a chair, my dearest sweet one,
      And think," &c.

"I'm sure I sha'n't set a chair; the floor's good enough for a frog."
The frog makes many requests, to all of which the lady returns uncivil
answers. He asks for beer, and is told "Water is good enough for a
frog;" to be put to bed, but "The cistern is good enough for a frog to
sleep in." The father, however, insists on her compliance; and even when
the frog says, "Cuddle my back, my dearest sweet one," orders her to do
so, "For who knows what it may come to at last?" And in the morning,
when she woke, she saw by her side the handsomest gentleman that ever
was seen, in a scarlet coat and top-boots, with a sword by his side and
a gold chain round his neck, and gold rings on his fingers and he
married her and made her a lady, and they lived very happy together.

I suspect the _scarlet coat and top-boots_ to be a modern interpolation,
the natural product of a sporting neighbourhood. It destroys the unity
of costume, as I believe Alderman Sawbridge is the only person recorded
as having gone hunting in a gold chain, and with a sword by his side.

Grimm's frog sings,--

      "K√∂nigstochter, j√ºngste, mach mir auf,
      Weisst du nicht wie gestern du zu mir gesagt
      Bei dem k√ºhlen Brunnenwasser?
      K√∂nigstochter, j√ºngste, mach mir auf."

There is not much difference in the song, but the moral tone of the
German is much higher. The frog restores the princess's golden ball,
which has fallen into the well, on her promising to do all those things
which he afterwards demands; and the king insists on her compliance,
because a promise is sacred, when made even to a frog. Our farmer
contradicts his daughter's inclinations to the verge, or perhaps beyond
the verge, of decorum, on the speculation of "what it may come to at
last." To be sure, if the Oxfordshire version is correct, she gets only
a sportsman for a husband.

    H. B. C.

  U. U. Club.


NO. III.

There was once an old woman, who left her daughter at home to get dinner
ready, while she was at church. On coming back she found nothing
touched, and her daughter crying by the fire-place. "Why, what now?"
exclaimed the old woman. "Why, do you know," replied her daughter, "as I
was going to cook the dinner a brick fell down the chimney, and you know
it _might_ have killed me." This the old woman could not deny, and
joined her daughter in her lamentations.

So in a little while the good man came in, and finding both weeping,
cried out, "What's the matter here? What, all in tears?" "Why," said the
old wife, "do you know, as Sally was going to get the dinner ready a
brick fell down the chimney, and you know it _might_ have killed her."
This her husband was forced to confess, and lifted up his voice with
them.

Shortly after, Sally's sweetheart came in, and seeing the hubbub and
confusion, began, "What's up here? All weeping?" "Why, you know," said
the father, "as Sally was going to cook the dinner a brick fell down the
chimney, and you know it _might_ have killed her." "Well!" said the
young man; "of all the fools I've seen, you three are the greatest; and
when I find three as great, why, then I'll come back and marry your
daughter."

So away he went and went till he came to where an old woman was busy,
for she was going to bake. But she bitterly bewailed her ill-luck; for,
instead of taking the bread to the oven, she had got a rope fastened to
the oven, and was trying with all her might to drag it to the bread, but
it wouldn't budge an inch for all her pains. "Oh, you fool," cried the
young man; "you should take the bread to the oven, and not try to drag
the oven to the bread." "Oh, I didn't think of that," said she; "la! so
I should." "Well, indeed, and that's fool number one," said the young
man; and he went on his way.

So he went and went, longer than I can tell, till he came to where an
old woman should feed her cow with grass that grew on her cottage-roof;
but, instead of throwing down the grass to the cow, she was trying to
drag the cow to the roof, but she could not, for all her pains. "Why,
you fool," said the young man, "cut the grass, and throw it to the cow,
to be sure." "Ay, I didn't think of that," said she. "That's fool number
two, sure enough; but it will be long before I meet such another."

But again he went and went, till at last he saw a man who was trying to
put his breeches on; but instead of holding them in his hand, he had
propped them up with sticks, and was trying in vain to take a running
jump into them. "Put in your legs, stupid!" said he. "That I didn't
think of," said the man. "Here, indeed, is fool number three," said the
young man. So he turned him homewards; came back to his sweetheart's
cottage, and married Sally, the old woman's daughter.

For a Norwegian parallel story, see _Norske Folkeeventyr samlede ved
Asbj√∂rnsen og J√∂rgen Moe_, I., Christiania, 1843, No. 10. pp. 61-67.,
"Somme Kj√¶rringer er slige."

    GEORGE STEPHENS.


GOLDSMITH'S HISTORY OF MECKLENBURGH.

In Mr. Prior's _Life of Goldsmith_ (vol. i. p. 388.), he observes that
"one of his (Goldsmith's) labours, if we may believe the accounts of
several personal acquaintances, for no certain evidence of the fact is
at hand, and the work has been sought for in vain," was _The History of
Mecklenburgh_, published for Newbery in February, 1762. This work, which
seems to have eluded Mr. Prior's great diligence, I have now before me.
It is in 8vo., to which a portrait of Queen Charlotte is prefixed, and
is entitled, _The History of Mecklenburgh from the first Settlement of
the Vandals in that Country to the present Time, including a Period of
about Three Thousand Years_: London, printed for J. Newbery, at the
Bible and Sun, in St. Paul's Churchyard, 1762. Pages, Preface, xiv.;
History, 360. It is dedicated by Newbery to the Queen, in a short and
rather elegant address, in which, as well as in the Preface which
follows, there are marks of Goldsmith's style. The History itself
appears to have been compiled in haste, and certainly bears no decisive
internal evidence of having Goldsmith for its author. It is, however,
rather superior to the ordinary run of similar compilations, and in some
parts--(see account of the Vandals, pp. 11. to 22., and character of
Gustavus Adolphus, p. 271.)--is not without proofs that the writer had
powers of pleasing and vigorous composition. It may have proceeded from
Goldsmith, and, as it is attributed to him by the accounts of several
personal acquaintances, in all probability did so; though, without some
indication of that kind, its authorship would not perhaps have been
suspected. Mr. Forster (_Life of Goldsmith_, p. 241.) states that for
the revision of this work he (Goldsmith) received 20_l._: but is there
any proof of this? Mr. Prior, as I understand him (see _Life_, Vol. i.
p. 416.), merely supposes that he might receive that sum, from the
prices paid for the other works of a similar kind.

    JAMES CROSSLEY.


FOLK LORE.

_Eagles' Feathers._--Will any of the correspondents of "N. & Q." favour
me with an explanation of the allusion in the following passage?

  "You must cast away the workes of darknes, and then put on the
  armour of light: first you must put off, and then put on. _As the
  eagle's feathers will not lie with any other feathers, but consume
  them which lie with them_: so the wedding garment will not bee
  worne with filthie garments," &c.

The passage is from a sermon on Rom. xiii. 14., entitled "The Wedding
Garment." It is contained in a volume in small 4to. (Lond. 1614), the
earlier portion of which contains six sermons by Maister _Henry Smith_;
and the latter, in which the above occurs, though it has no distinct
title-page, yet appears, from style and general appearance, to be by the
same author.

    ARNCLIFFE.

_East Wind on Candlemas Day._--The following couplet embodies a little
bit of folk lore which, from the long prevalence of easterly winds from
which we are suffering, may interest some of your readers.

      "When the wind's in the east on Candlemas day,
      There it will stick till the second of May."

    G. B.

_Placing Snuff on a Corpse._--"The custom of placing a plate of salt on
the body of the dead" has already been noticed in "N. & Q." I am
informed that a custom obtains in some parts of Ireland, of placing a
plate of snuff in the same situation; and that it is etiquette for all
those who are invited to the funeral to take a pinch on arriving at the
house of mourning. Hence has arisen the not very delicate threat, "I'll
get a pinch of snuff off your belly yet!" by which Paddy would intimate
to his rival his intention to survive him, and to crow over his remains.
This must, indeed, be a pinch of "_rale_ Irish."

    ALFRED GATTY.


ON A PASSAGE IN KING HENRY IV., PART I. ACT V. SC. 2.

Pursuant to my conviction that most of the obscure passages in our great
poet's dramas arise from typographical errors in the early editions, I
submit the following suggested correction of an error in a noble
passage, which has hitherto passed unnoticed, to the candid
consideration of those who can enter into the spirit of the poet, and
are not pertinaciously wedded to the lapses of a very careless printer;
to whom, in my opinion, the editors of the first folio confided its
correction. Otherwise, we must presume they were unaccustomed to such
labour, and in the hurry of active life did their best, however
imperfectly.

I must be indulged with rather a long extract, that the reader may be
enabled at once to judge whether the words I impugn are in harmony with
the tone and spirit of Hotspur's speech.

      "_Enter a Messenger._

      _Mess._ My lord, here are letters for you.

      _Hot._ I cannot read them now.----
      O gentlemen, the time of life is short;
      To spend that shortness basely, were too long,
      If life did ride upon a dial's point,
      Still ending at the arrival of an hour.
      An if we live, we live to tread on kings;
      If die, brave death, when princes die with us!
      Now for our consciences,--the arms are fair,
      When the intent of bearing them is just.

      _Enter another Messenger._

      _Mess._ My lord, prepare; the king comes on apace.

      _Hot._ I thank him, that he cuts me from my tale,
      For I profess not talking: only this--
      Let each man do his best: and here draw I
      A sword, whose temper I intend to stain
      With the best blood that I can draw withal
      In the adventure of this perilous day.
      Now,--Esperance!--Percy!--and set on.--
      Sound all the lofty instruments of war,
      And by that musick let us all embrace:
      For, heaven to earth, some of us never shall
      A second time do such a courtesy."

What are we to understand by the words "For heaven to earth," in the
last line but one? Can they be tortured, by any ingenuity, to signify,
as Warburton paraphrases them, "One might wager heaven to earth"? To say
nothing, of such extraordinary and unwonted ellipsis, would it not be a
strange wager, and stranger thought, to enter Hotspur's mind at such a
moment? I feel assured that Shakspeare wrote, and that we should read:

      "Sound all the lofty instruments of war,
      And by that musick let us all embrace:
      For _here on_ earth, some of us never shall
      A second time do such a courtesy."

If it should be thought that _here on_ could not well be mistaken, even
in MS., for _heaven to_, I reply that stranger misreadings of the
compositor could be easily adduced; and that even in the preceding page
we have one at any rate more wide of the mark, where _supposition_ is
printed in both the folios for _suspicion_.

How this extraordinary reading should have hitherto escaped suspicion, I
am at a loss to imagine, and feel assured that no one who is competent
to enter into the spirit of this exquisitely conceived passage, which
breathes the true expression of heroic pathos, will attempt a
vindication of the old reading.

    S. W. SINGER.


Minor Notes.

"_Thirty days hath September._"--The unknown author of _Thirty days hath
September_ may be fairly described as the most popular versifier in the
history of English literature. I believe he was rather a translator than
an author, and that both the Latin text and the English version are of
very early date. Be it as it may, no one can dispute its merit as a
specimen of mnemonic verse.

On the list of claimants to the honour in question it is my wish to
place, but without advocating the cause of either, 1. Richard Grafton,
citizen of London; and 2. Arthur Hopton, A.B. Oxon., the "miracle of his
age for learning."

  (1.) "A rule to knowe how many dayes euery moneth in the yere
  hath.

      Thirty dayes hath Nouember,
      Aprill, June and September.
      February hath .XXVIII. alone.
      And all the rest haue XXXI."

      _Graftons Abridgement of the chronicles of Englande_, 1570. 8vo.

  (2.) "The which ordination of the moneths, and position of dayes
  [by Julius C√¶sar], is vsed to this present time, according to
  these verses:

      '_Sep. No. Iun. Ap. dato triginta: reliquis magis vno:
      Ni sit bissextus, Februus minor esto duobus._'

  Which is,

              Thirtie dayes hath September,
              Aprill, Iune, and November:
                The rest haue thirtie and one,
                Saue February alone.
      Which moneth hath but eight and twenty meere,
      Saue when it is bissextile, or leap-yeare."

      _Arthur Hopton, A concordancy of yeares_, 1615. 8vo. p. 60.

Wood states that Hopton left "divers copies of verses scattered in
books," so that we may venture to ascribe to him the above version--but
it is not the _popular version_.

    BOLTON CORNEY.

"_When found, make a Note of._"--The following poem may be considered in
the light of an enlarged paraphrase on the motto of your valuable
periodical. It is one of a collection of poems by John Byrom, first
published in 1773. An edition was published at Leeds in the year 1814.

      "_A Hint to a Young Person, for his better Improvement
      by Reading or Conversation._

      "In reading authors, when you find
      Bright passages that strike the mind,
      And which perhaps you may have reason
      To think on at another season,
      Be not contented with the sight,
      But take them down in black and white.
      Such a respect is wisely shown,
      As makes another's sense one's own.
      When you're asleep upon your bed,
      A thought may come into your head,
      Which may be useful, if 'tis taken
      Due notice of when you are waken.
      Of midnight thoughts to take no heed
      Betrays a sleepy soul indeed;
      It is but dreaming in the day,
      To throw our nightly hours away.
      In conversation, when you meet
      With persons cheerful and discreet,
      That speak or quote, in prose or rhyme,
      Facetious things or things sublime,
      Observe what passes, and anon,
      When you get home think thereupon;
      Write what occurs; forget it not;
      A good thing sav'd is so much got.
      Let no remarkable event
      Pass with a gaping wonderment,
      A fool's device--'Lord, who would think!'
      Rather record with pen and ink
      Whate'er deserves attention now;
      For when 'tis gone you know not how,
      Too late you'll find that, to your cost,
      So much of human life is lost.
      Were it not for the written letter,
      Pray what were living men the better
      For all the labours of the dead?
      For all that Socrates e'er said?
      The morals brought from Heav'n to men
      He would have carry'd back again;
      'Tis owing to his short-hand youth
      That Socrates does now speak truth."

      Vol. i. p. 59. Edit. 1814.

    M.

  Dublin.

_The Dodo, existing Specimen of._--A friend of mine has just informed
me, on the authority of one of the principal members of the family, that
at Nettlecombe Park, in Somersetshire, the seat of Sir John Trevelyan,
Bt., there is now existing a stuffed specimen, entire, of the supposed
extinct bird, the Dodo.

How is it that such an important fact should have escaped the notice of
the principal naturalists of the country? At the Great Exhibition there
was a manufactured specimen of this bird, which called forth, I believe,
the encomium of Mr. Strickland and other well-known naturalists; but not
a word was said about this alleged real specimen at Nettlecombe Park.
There was in the same case which contained this fictitious Dodo, a cast
of the head and leg from the remains now in the Ashmolean Museum at
Oxford,--the only portions, I believe, that were rescued when the entire
specimen of the bird, once in that collection, was destroyed. It is
said, I think, there are other remains somewhere abroad; but that there
is no _entire_ specimen of the Dodo now in existence anywhere, is, I
imagine, the universal belief. I hope that you, or some of your
correspondents, may be able to solve this mystery, or set my friends
right should they be labouring under some mistake.

    ROWLAND WINN.

_A Proof that a Man can be his own Grandfather!_--I lately came across
the following curious piece of genealogical reasoning which I think
originally appeared in _Hood's Magazine_, and which I have endeavoured
to illustrate by the annexed table:

                   George==++
             1    2  |     ||
      William=Anne=Henry   ||
             |    |        ||
             | _David_     ||
             |   1    2    ||
           Thomas=Jane=====++

There was a widow (Anne) and her daughter-in-law (Jane), and a man
(George) and his son (Henry). The widow married the son, and the
daughter married the father. The widow was therefore mother (in-law) to
her husband's father, and consequently grandmother to her own husband
(Henry). By this husband she had a son (David), to whom she was
great-grandmother. Now, as the son of a great-grandmother must be either
a grandfather or great uncle, this boy (David) was one or the other. He
was his own grandfather! This was the case with a boy at school at
Norwich.

    E. N.

_Memoria Technica_

  _For the Plays of Shakspeare, omitting the Historical English
  Dramas_, "quos versu dicere non est."

      Cymbeline, Tempest, Much Ado, Verona,
      Merry Wives, Twelfth Night, As You Like It, Errors,
      Shrew Taming, Night's Dream, Measure, Andronicus,
      Timon of Athens.

      Wintry Tale, Merchant, Troilus, Lear, Hamlet,
      Love's Labour, All's Well, Pericles, Othello,
      Romeo, Macbeth, Cleopatra, C√¶sar,
      Coriolanus.

      _From a Common-place Book at Audley End._

    BRAYBROOKE.

_Portrait of George Fox._--A writer in the _Westminster Review_ for the
present quarter, on "The Early Quakers and Quakerism," says (p. 610.),
respecting George Fox,--

  "Portrait painters having been in his eyes panderers to the
  fleshly desires of the creature, we have no likeness of him."

Whether or not there is in existence an _authentic_ portrait of George
Fox, I do not know; but I saw some time since, at the shop of Smith, the
Quaker bookseller in Whitechapel, an engraved portrait of Fox, and
another of his early coadjutor, James Nayler.

    LLEWELLYN.

_Lines on Crawfurd of Kilbirnie._--George Crawfurd, who wrote a _Peerage
of Scotland_, which was published in folio at Edinburgh in the year
1716, says, under the head of "Crawfurd, Viscount of Garnock," p. 159.,
that Malcolm Crawfurd, Esq., succeeded to the barony of Kilbirny in
right of Marjory his wife, daughter and sole heir of John Barclay of
Kilbirny; whereupon he assumed the coat of Barclay, and impaled it with
his own:

  "Here it may be remarked," he continues, "that all the estate the
  family ever had, or yet possesses, was acquired to them by
  marriage: or lands so obtained were exchanged for others lying
  more contiguous to the rest of their fortune; which gave occasion
  to a friend to apply to them the following distich:

      'Aulam alii jactent, at tu Kilbirnie, nube:
      Nam qu√¶ fors aliis, dat Venus alma tibi.'"

Which may be thus translated:

      "Let others choose the dice to throw,
        Do you, Kilbirny, wed:
      On them what Fortune may bestow,
        On you will Venus shed."

    C--S. T. P.

  W---- Rectory.




Queries.


WHERE WAS ANNE BOLEYN BURIED?

It is said in Miss Strickland's _Queens of England_ (iv. 203.), that
there is a tradition at Salle in Norfolk that the remains of Anne Boleyn
were removed from the Tower, and interred at midnight, with the rites of
Christian burial, in Salle Church, and that a plain black stone without
any inscription is supposed to indicate the place where she was buried.
An account of Salle Church, with the inscriptions on the Boleyn
monuments, is given in the 4th volume of Blomefield's _Norfolk_ (folio
ed.), p. 421., but no allusion is made to any such tradition; and other
parts of the same work, where the Boleyns (including the Queen) are
referred to, are equally silent on the subject. Lord Herbert of
Cherbury, in his _History of King Henry VIII._, does not state how or
where she was buried. Hollingshed, Stow, and Speed say, that her body,
with the head, was buried in the choir of the chapel in the Tower; and
Sandford, that she was buried in the chapel of St. Peter in the Tower.

Burnet (vol. i. p. 318.), who is followed by Henry, Hume, and Lingard,
says that her body was thrown into a common chest of elm-tree that was
made to put arrows in, and was buried in the chapel within the Tower,
before twelve o'clock. Sharon Turner, in his _History of the Reign of
King Henry VIII._, vol. ii p. 464., cites the following passage from
Crispin's account of Anne Boleyn's execution, written fourteen days
after her death, viz.:

  "Her ladies immediately took up her head and the body. They seemed
  to be without souls, they were so languid and extremely weak; but
  fearing that their mistress might be handled unworthily by inhuman
  men, they forced themselves to do this duty; and though almost
  dead, at last carried off her dead body wrapt in a white
  covering."

In a letter in the _Gentleman's Magazine_ for October, 1815, signed "J.
C.," it is said--

  "But the headless remains of the departed Queen were said to be
  deposited in an arrow-chest, and buried in the Tower Chapel,
  before the High Altar. Where that stood, the most sagacious
  antiquary, after a lapse of less than three hundred years, cannot
  now determine; nor is the circumstance, though related by eminent
  writers, clearly ascertained. In a cellar the body of a person of
  short stature, without a head, not many years since was found, and
  supposed to be the reliques of poor Anna; but soon after
  re-interred in the same place, and covered with earth."

I am informed that the stone in Salle Church was some time since raised,
but that no remains were to be found underneath it. Has the tradition
referred to by Miss Strickland been noticed by any other writer? and
upon what authority does Burnet say that her remains were placed in an
arrow-chest? I may add that Miss S. states that a similar tradition is
assigned to a black stone in the church at Thornden on the Hill: but
Morant, in his _History of Essex_, does not notice it.

    J. H. P.


TORTOISESHELL TOM CATS.

Can any correspondents of "N. & Q." who may have paid particular
attention to natural history, throw any light or grounds for explaining
the fact of there, I may almost say, never being instances of a _male
tortoiseshell cat_? for though I have been very lately told that such a
one was exhibited in the great display in Hyde Park, yet as I did not
witness it myself, I can only use it as the exception which proves the
general rule.

Having for the last fifty years been in the constant habit of keeping
cats, and having frequently during that time possessed many of a rare
and foreign breed, some of which were tortoise-shells of the most
beautiful varieties, I have always endeavoured, by mixing the breeds in
every way, to procure a male of this peculiar colour; but with the vast
number of kittens that during this long period have fallen under my
observation, I have invariably found that if there was the slightest
appearance of a single _black hair_ on one, otherwise _white and
orange_, so sure would it prove a female; and thus _vice vers√¢_, an
orange hair appearing on a black and white skin, even in the smallest
degree, would immediately proclaim the sex.

I have asked for an elucidation of this curious fact from two of our
greatest naturalists of the present day, but without any success; I have
racked my own brain even for some plausible mode of accounting for it,
but in vain; for it should be observed that this peculiarity or line of
demarcation as to sexes does not obtain with other animals, for I have
seen what may be called tortoiseshell horses and cows, that is, with the
same admixture of colours, and yet they have been indiscriminately of
both sexes.

Now it is true we hear occasionally of a _tortoiseshell tom cat_
advertised as having been seen or heard of, but in all these instances a
solution of the _nitrate of silver_ has been _freely used to aid the
imposition_, and with all the pains I have taken, I have never been
fortunate enough to meet with a _bon√¢ fide_ ocular demonstration.

Should any of the correspondents of "N. & Q." have it in their power to
throw light on this curious fact in natural history, it will much
gratify me, even if it should prove that I am making much about nothing.

    W. R.

  Surbiton.


Minor Queries.

_Oasis._--What is the proper pronunciation of this word? Ninety-nine
people out of a hundred will say, as _I_ said, "O[=a]sis, of course!"
Let them, however, proceed to consult authorities, and they will begin
to be puzzled. Its derivation from the Coptic "w√°he" (or "ouahe," the
French way of expressing the Egyptian word w√°he.--_Encycl. Metrop._)
seems universally admitted. As to the pronunciation, the way in which
the word is accented by the different authorities in which I have been
able to find it is as follows:--

·ΩåŒ±œÉŒπœÇ (œÄ·ΩπŒªŒπœÇ).--_Herodot._ iii. 26. Larcher's _Notes_, and
Liddell and Scott's _Greek Lexicon_, give no help as to the
pronunciation.

Rees's _Cyclop√¶dia_, and the _Encyclop√¶dia Britannica_, do not accent
the word at all. Brasse's _Greek Gradus_, Ainsworth's and Riddle's
_Dictionaries_, Yonge's _Gradus_, Walker's _Rhyming Dictionary_,
Webster, Richardson, and Johnson, do not even contain the word.

The few authorities which _do_ accent the word, do it "with a
difference." Ex. gr.:

      O'asis.--_Penny Cyclop√¶dia._
      O'asis.--_Imperial Dictionary._
      O'asis.--Spiers' _English-French Dictionary_.
      O[)a]sis.--Anthon's _Lempri√®re_.
      O√°sis.--Brande's _Dictionary of Science, &c._
      O[=a]sis.--Butler's _Classical Atlas_. Index.

Who is right? I have searched all the Indices to the Delphin edition of
the Latin poets, without finding the word at all. A Cambridge friend
quoted at once "sacramque Ammonis oasim;" but, on being pressed,
admitted, that if it were not the fag-end of some prize-poem line
lurking in his memory, he did not know whence it came. I cannot get
anybody to produce me an instance of the use of the word in English
poetry. One says, "I am sure it's in Moore," and another, "You're sure
to find it in Milton;" but our English poets lack verbal indices. Some
such line as "Some green oasis in the desert's waste," haunts my own
memory, but I cannot give it a "local habitation." Of course, two or
three instances from _English_ poets would not _absolutely_ determine
the question one way or the other, as we pronounce many words derived
from Greek and Latin sources in defiance of their original quantity.
Still they would not be without their value. Can any wise man of the
East help?

    HARRY LEROY TEMPLE.

_Ballad on Shakspeare._--About fifty years ago there was an old ballad
in praise of Shakspeare which used to be very popular in Warwickshire.
All I remember is the following stanza, which, I remember, was the
concluding one:--

      "The pride of all nature is sweet Willy, O;
      The pride of our land was sweet Willy, O;
      And when Willy died, it was Nature that sighed
      At the loss of her all--her sweet Willy, O."

Where can the rest of the ballad be obtained? and who was the author?

    SAXONICUS.

_Dr. Toby Matthew._--In Le Neve's _Lives of the Protestant Archbishops_
under Dr. Toby Matthew, Archbishop of York, it is stated that he was
appointed Bishop of Durham in 1595; and that on 7th April, Archbishop
Whitgift granted a commission to Archbishop Hutton, "to confirm and
consecrate this our bishop within the province of Canterbury, which,"
says Le Neve, "no doubt was done accordingly, though I cannot find,
either in his diary or elsewhere, the time when, place where, or the
names of the bishops who assisted at that solemnity," (vol. ii. pp.
105-6.). In Surtees' _History of Durham_, it is said that his
consecration took place on "Palm Sunday." Palm Sunday fell on 9th April
that year: the very Sunday, therefore, which followed the date of the
licence mentioned by Le Neve. I believe Surtees refers to _Rot. Durham_
as his authority. In the _Church of England Magazine_, Jan. 1847, p.
13., there is a Life of Dr. T. Matthew, said to be "Abridged from a
manuscript in the British Museum, entitled 'The Preaching Bishop,'" &c.
Does this document supply the information which Le Neve sought in
vain?[3] Can any reader ascertain from the diary, or elsewhere, what the
bishop was doing on 9th April, 1595, or where he was; or give any
information on the subject?

    C. H. D.

  [Footnote 3: [The MS. in the British Museum does not supply the
  information required; it merely corrects Bishop Godwyn's date of
  the consecration, viz. March, 1594: "but," says the writer, "he
  was mistaken; it was the year after, for he preached the first
  sermon after he was made bishop, May 11, 1595, as he himself sets
  down, being then forty-eight years of age." It is not given in Mr.
  Perceval's valuable list of the consecrations of English prelates
  in the Appendix to his _Apology for the Apostolical Succession_,
  so that we may conclude it is not to be found among the Lambeth
  records. It is possible it may be found in the document quoted by
  Surtees, viz. "Rot. Mathew, A."--ED.]]

_Hart and Mohun._--Very little is known of these two old actors and
managers. When were they born, and when did they die?

    EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

_Burial without Religious Service._--In case of the friends of any
person deceased either objecting to, or not wishing to compel the
clergyman to use, the burial service, is there any law to _forbid_ the
corpse being interred in the parish churchyard _without any religious
service at all_? Suppose the deceased were a baptized dissenter, who had
himself in his lifetime objected to, and whose surviving relatives also
objected to the performance of the burial service, though they wished
the body to be deposited in the churchyard; does a clergyman render
himself liable to any penalty in _permitting_ the body to be thus
silently interred? Some years ago, at the Kensal Green cemetery the sons
of Carlile _protested at the grave_ against the performance of _any_
religious service. The chaplain persisted in its performance in spite of
their expressed wishes to the contrary! Was this right or wrong in a
legal point of view?

    C. H. D.

_Ganganelli's Bible._--Can any of your readers inform me who was the
translator of the "Ganganelli (Pope) Bible," published in 1784 in folio,
what is the merit of the translation, and who wrote the notes? If I
mistake not, Evans, the auctioneer who sold the Duke of Sussex's
library, puts in the catalogue that the notes are not the Pope's, it
being "a scandalous imposture" in the title-page to say so, "for they
have a free-thinking tendency."

The title-page of said Bible says that that Pope and the translator were
liberals, and the author of the notes must have been a radical, all very
intelligible in those days, but not without instruction to these.

The Duke's copy sold to the British Museum for 30_l._ May I ask why it
is so rare?

    J. D. G.

_Wherland Family._--Information is desired respecting the family of
"Wherland," now of Cork, and whether they came from Scotland; and if so,
whether the family still exists there? The crest of the Cork Wherlands
is a demi-lion rampant out of a ducal coronet.

    T. W. W.

_Flemish Proverb quoted by Chaucer._--Can any of the readers of "N. &
Q.," or, should I not rather say, of its Dutch ally, "DE NAVORSCHER,"
point out the original of the old Flemish proverb,

    "Soth play quod play,"

quoted by Chaucer in his Prologue to the "Cook's Tale;" and whether or
not there is any history attached to it?

    PHILO-CHAUCER.

_Derivation of the Word "Callis," an Almshouse._--The word is not given
in Bailey or Richardson. It appears in Holloway's and Halliwell's
_Provincial Dictionaries_ in the plural, and is spelt "calasses." Each
quotes Grose, who refers the word to the _Gentleman's Magazine_ for May,
1784; but there the above question only is asked, and is unanswered. It
has been suggested that the callis may be so called from its having been
founded by some merchant of the Staple of Calais, or from its endowment
being derived from donations to the chalice, made by persons to the
priest administering extreme unction. _Calis_ was the old form of
_chalice_.--Vide Halliwell's _Dictionary_.

    J. P. JUN.

_Nashe's "Terrors of the Night," 4to. 1594._--Can any correspondent
oblige me with Notes, critical, philological, or otherwise, illustrative
of the subjoined passages, which occur, among many others scarcely less
curious, in the above rare tract, of which I am fortunate enough to
possess a (not quite perfect) copy? Speaking of Iceland, he says,--

  "It is reported, that the Pope long since gaue them a dispensation
  to receiue the Sacrament in ale, insomuch as for their vncessant
  frosts there, no wine but was turned to red emayle as soone as
  euer it came amongst them."--_D._ iii.

  "Other spirits like rogues they have among them, destitute of all
  dwelling and habitation; and they chillingly complayne if a
  constable aske them _Cheuela_ in the night, that they are going
  vnto Mount Hecla to warme them."--_D._ ii.

What is _emayle_? and is _Cheuela_ for _Qui va l√†_?

Speaking of a vision of devils, he mentions some with

  "Great glaring eyes, that had whole shelues of Kentish oysters in
  them; and terrible wide mouthes, whereof not one of them but would
  well haue made a case for _Molenax'_ great gloabe of the
  world."--_D._ iii.

Is, then, Wyld's great Globe only a plagiarism from Molenax?

    J. EASTWOOD.

_Did Orientals ever wear Spurs?_--In the second volume, p. 38., of
Prescott's _Ferdinand and Isabella_, are given some lines from Hyta,
_Guerras de Granada_, &c., descriptive of the departure of Abdallah
Chico on his fatal expedition against Lucena. These, enumerating all the
braveries of the cort√®ge, amongst others, mention

      "Cu√°nto de Espuela de Oro,
      Cu√°nta Estribera de Plata."

Now, unless this be an oversight of Hyta, his spurs of gold and stirrups
of silver require some explanation, since the specification of both does
not leave us the alternative of supposing that the former merely meant
the sharp corners of the shovel-stirrup, which we all know serve the
Oriental horseman of the present day as spurs.

Was Hyta a Spaniard or a Moor?

    A. C. M.

_Badges of Noblemen in the Fifteenth Century._--What were the customary
badges or cognizances of De la Pole, Duke of Suffolk, executed 1450;
Humphrey Duke of Gloucester, and John Duke of Bedford, Protectors, temp.
Henry VI.; Cardinal Beaufort; the Earls of Somerset, Salisbury, and
Arundel, temp. Henry VI.; and Sir John Fastolfe?

    BURIENSIS.

_Sir Roger de Coverley._--In the first article of the Number of the
_Quarterly Review_ just published, on _Sir Roger de Coverley, by the
Spectator, with Notes and Illustrations_, by W. Henry Wills, it is
stated,--

  "At the suggestion of Swift they took advantage of a popular name,
  and derided the Knight's descent from the inventor of the
  celebrated country-dance," &c.

I should like to know the authority for this statement respecting Swift,
as, at the time of the _Spectator_ first appearing, he was certainly not
on good terms with either Addison or Steele. The first Number of the
_Spectator_ was published on the 1st of March, 1710-11. In Swift's
journal, sent to Stella, he says, March 6th,--

  "I have not seen Mr. Addison these three weeks: all our friendship
  is over."

On the 16th he says,--

  "Have you seen the _Spectator_ yet? a paper that comes out every
  day. 'Tis written by Mr. Steele, who seems to have gathered new
  life, and have a new fund of wit; it is in the same nature as his
  _Tatlers_, and they have all of them had something pretty. I
  believe Addison and he club. I never see them," &c.

    C. DE D.

_Lines on Elizabeth._--No doubt some of your readers will be able to
tell me where I may find these verses:--

      "_Princeps Elizabetha tuis Dea magna Britannis._"

which is fathered upon Ascham; and the following, which report gives to
Camden:--

      "_Elizabetha suis Diva et Dea sola Britannis._"

    PETROS.

_Twyford._--Simeon of Durham relates the history of the acts of a
council held A.D. 684, in the presence of King Egfrid, and presided over
by Archbishop Theodore, at a place called _Twyford_, near the river Alne
[_√Üttwyforda, quod significat ad duplex vadum._]--_Libellus_, &c., p.
44. Is there any vestige or record of the site of Twyford? Camden
mentions it when speaking of the Northumberland coast:

  "The shore afterwards opens for the river Alaun, which, still
  retaining the same name it had at Ptolemy's time, is called by
  contraction Alne, on whose bank is _Twifford_, q. d. _Two-fords_,
  where was held a synod under King Egfrid; and Eslington, Alnwick,"
  &c.

    CEYREP.

_Irish Titles of Honour: The Knight of Kerry; The O'Conor Don; The
O'Gorman Mahon._--Will somebody explain for me the origin of, and right
to, these titles, which do not receive the honour of any mention in the
ordinary "Baronetages, Knightages," &c. &c.; as also the mode in which
the individuals who claim them are addressed in ordinary conversation.

    HARRY LEROY TEMPLE.

_Sir Hobbard de Hoy._--A common term for a lad between boyhood and
manhood is a _hobbledehoy_. I find an early use of this word in Tusser's
_Hundred Points of Husbandry_, A.D. 1557, in his verses entitled _Man's
age divided here ye have, By Prenticeships from birth to grave_.

      "The first seven years bring up as a child,
      The next to learning, for waxing too wild;
      The next keep under _Sir Hobbard de Hoy_,
      The next a man, no longer a boy," &c.

Can you tell me the origin of this curious term?

    W. W. E. T.

  Warwick Square, Belgravia.

_The Moon and her Influences._--Can any of your readers inform me of
books treating, scientifically, or giving traditional notices, about the
supposed influences of the moon; for instance, on the tides, on
lunatics, on timber felled during the wane, on fish taken by moonlight
in the tropics?

Also can any account be given of the origin of the tradition that
connects "the man in the moon" with the history given of the "man
gathering sticks upon the Sabbath day" (_Numbers_, xv. 32-36.)?

    W. H.

_St. Ulrich's, Augsburg._--In Pugin's _Glossary of Ecclesiastical
Ornament_, the author refers to a book containing an account, with
illustrations, of the Tr√©sor of the church of St. Ulrich at Augsburg; he
also adds, "this book is now very rare." Could any of your
correspondents inform me who is the author; for I have searched the
Museum catalogue under the names "Augsburg and Ulric, or Udalric,"
without any success? Probably, if I had the author's name, I might run
some chance of finding it.

    W. B.

_The late Mr. Miller of Craigentinny._--I should be glad if any of your
Edinburgh or other correspondents could favour me with any particulars
relating to the above gentleman. He was a well-known book collector, and
in the spirit of his purchases the legitimate successor of Richard
Heber. He bequeathed his noble collection of books to the Advocates'
Library of Edinburgh. In early English poetry the collection is almost
unrivalled. Mr. Miller was the purchaser of the _Heber Ballads_. The
collection, in money market value, is nearly equal to the Grenville gift
to the British Museum. I have heard the title to the property of
Craigentinny was in dispute.

    PETROPROMONTORIENSIS.

_Whipping Boys._--Will any correspondent of "N. & Q." inform me when
ceased the custom of male heirs apparent to the throne of England having
whipping boys? when and why it originated? what remuneration such boys
received? and whether our queens had during their state of pupillage any
such kinds of convenience. I have only met with the names of two
whipping boys; Brown, who stood for Edward VI., and Mungo Murray, who
did the like for Charles.

    THOS. LAWRENCE.

  Ashby-de-la-Zouch.

_Edwards of Essex._--This family can be traced to Anstey from 1700. A
descendant in New York has the arms: Argent, a fess ermines between 3.
martlets (2. and 1.) sable. Can any correspondent find him any old
branches of his family tree?

    E.

  New York.


Minor Queries Answered.

_Polynesian Languages._--Where could I obtain Testaments in the various
languages of Polynesia, more especially in the Feejeean and Samoan? I
have applied at the British and Foreign Bible Society without success.
These Testaments have been published by this society.

    EBLANENSIS.

  [Our correspondent should consult _The Bible of every Land_,
  lately published by Bagster and Sons, which gives some account of
  the different Polynesian and Malayan versions.--See Class V., pp.
  299-312.]

_Arms of Thompson._--Will any of your Lancashire correspondents be kind
enough to inform me whether they have ever met with the following arms
in connexion with the name of Thompson in any work on the history of
Lancashire, or on any monument in that county, namely, "Per pale, argent
and sable, a fess embattled between three falcons, countercharged,
belled or?" I believe a family of the name to which the arms are
attributed held landed property in the neighbourhood of Hornby and
Gressingham.

    JAYTEE.

  [We know nothing beyond the fact of such a coat being described in
  an ordinary of arms for Thompson of Lancashire, without any
  particular locality.]

_The Silent Woman._--What is the origin of the old sign-board "The
Silent Woman?" She is represented headless, holding her head under her
arm. There is, or was, a sign of this at a small ale-house not far from
Ledbury, in Herefordshire, and I was told it was not an uncommon sign in
these parts.

     F. J. H.

  Edinburgh.

  [Has not this sign, which we have seen also described as that of
  _The Good Woman_, its origin in the satirical spirit which
  prompted the Dutch epigrammist to write,--

      "A woman born without a tongue,
        I can conceive it;
      But silent, with a tongue in her head,
        I'll ne'er believe it."]

_Review of Hewett's Memoirs of Rustat._--In what literary paper can I
find review of Mr. Hewett's _Memoirs of Tobias Rustat_?

    C. W.

  [A review of this work will be found in the _Gentleman's Magazine_
  of June, 1850, pp. 638-640.]

_Robert Recorde._--Can any of your readers inform me whether Robert
Recorde, who in 1549, or possibly some years later, was Comptroller of
the Mint at Bristol, was the same person as the author of _The Whetstone
of Wit_, and other mathematical works? Also, whether there is any fuller
account of his life to be met with than that given by Hutton?

    J. E.

  [It does not appear that Robert Recorde, the celebrated
  mathematician, was ever connected with the Bristol mint. The best
  account we have met with of the author of _The Whetstone of Wit_,
  is in Mr. Halliwell's pamphlet on _The Connexion of Wales with the
  Early Science of England_, 8vo., 1840. Consult also a very able
  and learned article in the _Companion to the British Almanack_ for
  1837, pp. 30-37., by Professor De Morgan.]

_Strange Opinions of great Divines._--I shall be obliged to any of your
correspondents who can give me references to the following quotations
from the works of two great divines:

  (1.) "I would that we were well rid of this [the Athanasian]
  Creed."

  (2.) "The Apocalypse either finds a man mad, or leaves him so."

    C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

  [1. The first quotation will be found in a letter of Archbishop
  Tillotson's to Bishop Burnet, dated Oct. 23, 1694. The archbishop
  says, "The account given of Athanasius' Creed (_i.e._ in Burnet's
  _Exposition of the Thirty-nine Articles_) seems to me no-wise
  satisfactory. I wish we were well rid of it." Dr. Birch adds, "The
  archbishop did not long survive the writing of this letter."--See
  Birch's _Life of Tillotson_, edit. 1752, p. 343.; ed. 1753, p.
  315. Consult also _Remarks upon Dr. Birch's Life of Tillotson_,
  8vo., 1753, p. 53., anonymous, but attributed to George Smith, a
  Nonjuror.

  2. The second quotation is probably the following, which occurs in
  Dr. South's Sermon on the Nature and Measures of Conscience (Serm.
  XXIII.): "Because the light of natural conscience is in many
  things defective and dim, and the internal voice of God's Spirit
  not always distinguishable, above all, let a man attend to the
  mind of God, uttered in His _revealed Word_: I say, His revealed
  Word; by which I do not mean that mysterious, extraordinary (and
  of late so much studied) book called 'The Revelation,' and which,
  perhaps, the more it is studied, the less it is understood, as
  generally either finding a man cracked, or making him so; but I
  mean those other writings of the prophets and apostles, which
  exhibit to us a plain, sure, perfect, and intelligible rule; a
  rule that will neither fail nor distract such as make use of it."]

_Inquisitiones Post Mortem._--What are these, extending to seven
volumes, regularly paged, and coming down to 1656, referred to in
Oldfield's _History of Wainfleet_? Are they printed works? It is quite a
different publication to the _Calendarium_, &c. in four volumes.

When did the Post Mortem Inquisitions cease?

    W. H. L.

  [The _Inquisitiones_ quoted by Oldfield are sometimes called
  Cole's _Escheats_, and will be found in the Harleian Collection in
  the British Museum, the first five volumes in Nos. 756. to 760.,
  and the sixth and seventh, Nos. 410, 411.]

_Derivation of Carmarthen._--What is the derivation of this word
_Carmarthen_?

    LLEWELLYN.

  [Caermarthen appears to have been the _Maridunum_ of Ptolemy, and
  the _Muridunum_ of Antoninus, one of the principal stations in the
  country of the Dimet√¶, situated on the Via Julia, or great Roman
  road. Its modern name of Caermarthen, or _Caer Fyrdden_, as it is
  called by the Welsh (by a change of the convertible consonants _f_
  and _m_, common in their language), implies "a military station
  fortified with walls," and perfectly agrees with the description
  given by Giraldus Cambrensis, who calls it, "Urbs antiqua
  coctilibus muris."]

"_Medi√¶val and Middle Ages._"--These terms are now in constant use, and
very differently and vaguely defined. Will any of your correspondents,
antiquaries or historians, say what period is comprehended in these
terms, and give the date when it should commence, and when terminate?

    L. T.

  [The late lamented Rev. J. G. Dowling, in his _Introduction to the
  Critical Study of Ecclesiastical History_, fixes upon the Council
  of Chalcedon, A.D. 451, as the commencement of the Medi√¶val, or
  Middle Ages, which he thinks ended with the revival of classical
  literature in the fifteenth century, "that age of transition and
  revolution, combining in itself several of the most striking
  characteristics of the two states of society between which it
  forms the interval." This able work ought to find a place in the
  library of every ecclesiastical student.]

_Garlands hung up in Churches._--It is said that the pretty wild flower,
the small Woodruff (_Asperula Cynanchica_), was formerly employed in
adorning the walls of churches. Is this true? If so, what was the origin
of the custom? Was this particular flower thus used for the reason that
it long preserves its scent? Is it mentioned by any early poet in
connexion with the decoration of churches?

    R. VINCENT.

  [Garlands of Rosemary and Woodroof were formerly used to decorate
  the churches on St. Barnabas' day, as appears by many old entries
  and church-books; _e.g._ in the churchwardens' accounts of St.
  Mary-at-Hill, in the city of London, 17 and 19 Edward IV., the
  following entry occurs: "For Rose garlondis and Woodrove garlondis
  on St. Barnebe's daye, xj_d._" The reason Woodroof was used,
  Gerard tells us in his _Historie of Plants_, p. 965.: "It doth
  very well attemper the aire, coole and make fresh the place, to
  the delight and comfort of such as are therein."]




Replies.


ANCIENT TIMBER TOWN-HALLS.

(Vol. v., pp. 257. 295.)

MR. PARKER makes some inquiries relative to the ancient town-halls of
our country towns; and should the following particulars of some still in
existence be of service, I shall feel a pleasure in having been the
means of gratifying his curiosity.

The town-hall in the city of Hereford is a timber structure built upon
twenty-seven pillars, and was originally a very handsome building, but
was many years since denuded of its upper story, in which the fourteen
different trading companies of the city transacted their business. It
was erected by the celebrated John Abel, in the reign of James I. Prior
to the erection of the present county hall, the assizes were held in
this building.

The town-hall at Leominster, or Butter-cross as it is frequently called
by the inhabitants, was erected in the year 1633, by the above-named
architect; it stands upon twelve oak pillars, and was originally
ornamented with a variety of curious carvings, and the shields of arms
of those who contributed towards the expense of its erection, but which
have long since vanished. Around the building, just above the pillars,
was inscribed the following sentences, but portions of which only now
remain. On the south side:

  "Vive Deo gratus, toti mundo tumulatus, crimine mundatus, semper
  transire paratus."

On the east side:

  "Where justice reigns, there virtue flows. Sat cito, si sat bene
  vive ut post vivas. As columns do support the fabric of a
  building, so noble gentry do subprop the honour of a state."

On the north side:

      "In memori√¢ √¶tern√¢ erit Justus, 1663."

In the year 1793, this hall underwent very considerable repairs, more
properly called spoliation, by taking down the gables, and with them the
curious carvings, shields of arms, &c., which must have greatly
destroyed its picturesque effect. It contains a clock, and is surmounted
by a cupola, in which is a bell, whereon the hours strike.

The town-halls of Brecon, Kington[4], and Weobly, and probably others of
which at present I can give no particulars, were built by the same
person. Mr. Abel being in Hereford when that city was besieged in 1645,
was of great service by constructing mills to grind corn for the use of
the inhabitants and soldiers confined therein, for which Charles I.
afterwards conferred upon him the title of one of his majesty's
carpenters.

  [Footnote 4: This hall had similar inscriptions to those of
  Leominster.]

In Sarnesfield churchyard, in the county of Hereford, is a monument
consisting of the effigies of himself and his two wives, with the
emblems of his profession, executed by his own hands after he reached
the patriarchal age of ninety years; it has the following inscription,
being his own composition:

      "This craggy stone a covering is for an architector's bed,
      That lofty buildings raised high, yet now lyes low his head:
      His line and rule, so death concludes, are locked up in store,
      Build they who list, or they who wist, for he can build no more.
            His house of clay could hold no longer,
            May heaven's joy frame him a stronger.

      JOHN ABEL.

      Vive ut vivas in vitam √¶ternam."

I believe Sarnesfield was his native place; he died there in 1694,
having attained the great age of ninety-seven years.

    J. B. WHITBORNE.

  Leamington.

In my reply to a Query upon the interesting subject introduced by MR. J.
H. PARKER, I felt anxious to direct his attention to other peculiar
characters appertaining to the ancient town of Wokingham, besides those
marks by which it in some degree approximates to his general description
of the English towns in France. In reply to MR. PARKER'S inquiry
respecting the medi√¶val town-halls, and other public halls of that
period remaining in England (Vol. v., p. 295.), I have much pleasure in
forwarding the following account of the Town-hall of Leicester, which
formerly belonged to the Guild of Corpus Christi, in the church of St.
Martin. It was built in the reign of Elizabeth, and was first opened by
a banquet, given by George Norris, the mayor, to celebrate the victory
over the Spanish Armada. This anniversary was continued until within the
memory of some of the burgesses now living, and was called the "Venison
Feast." The hall is a low-roofed timber building, lighted by plain
latticed windows, and was enlarged, by the addition of the _Mayor's
parlour_, in 1636. The great hall, or court, is fitted with appropriate
seats of state for the mayor and aldermen, and with galleries for
spectators of municipal ceremonies; and its walls were formerly enriched
with many valuable paintings. The adjoining parlour is remarkable for
the quaint character of its decorations; it is, like the great hall,
provided with state seats or benches, and has a long range of low
windows, containing stained glass illustrative of religious subjects,
and emblems of the seasons. The Town-library is a storied building,
containing a large hall, founded by the Corporation in 1632, and
possessing at present about 1000 volumes, chiefly of old divinity,
together with a few miscellaneous books, and a MS. of the Greek
Testament written on vellum and paper, supposed to be of the thirteenth
century, and which was given to the library in 1649 by the Rector of
Thrussington.

There are hospitals in Leicester of similar style, and two of much
earlier periods, 1330 and 1512.

    KT.

  Leicestershire.


OLD SIR RALPH VERNON.

(Vol. v., p. 389.)

In an old manuscript book now before me, containing a copy of Flower's
"Visitation of Cheshire," 1580, together with a very great number of
coats of arms, copies of charters, &c., is the curious account of old
Sir Raulfe Vernon, which I now send you. I have not at present Ormerod's
_History Of Cheshire_ to refer to; but, if I remember right, there is an
account of the old knight, and of the great age he is said to have
attained, there. The latest date in the book from which this is
extracted is 1610; but there is bound with it eleven pages of "Armes of
the Gentry of Cheshire, entred in ye Visitation of that County made in
Ao 1663 and 1664, by me Wm. Dugdale, Esqr., Norroy King of Armes."

  "_Coppies of old Pedegrees remayning wth Sr John Savadge, 1583._

  "Theare was Sr Raulfe ye Vernon ye old, ye quych levet [xx]vij yer
  and x yere, and he had to his first Wyffe on Mary ye Lordes
  doughter of Dacre, and he had Issue by her one Sr Raulf ye Vernon
  of Hanwell, Mr Ricrd person of Stockporte, other two sonnes
  Mighell & Hugh, ye quich wer both freres: and two daughteres,
  Agnes and Rose and yen deghet ye forsaid Mary, and after her death
  ye forsaid old Sr Raulf tooke to paremer on Maude ye Grosevener,
  and had Issue by her Ricrd and Robart bastardes. Ye forsaid Sr
  Raulf ye Vernon of Hanwell was maryed to A. Seintper, and had
  Issue by her Ralyn, Hychcoke, John, & Thomas, ye quiche Ralyn had
  Issue Sr Raulfe ye Vernon of Mottrem, ye quich Sr Raulf had Issue
  yong Sr Raulf, ye forsaid Sr Raufe ye Vernon of Hanwell, Ralyn his
  Sonn, and Sr Raufe his sonn deygen, lyvand ye old Sr Raufe; and ye
  sam tym on Sr Ricrd Damory was Justice of Chester, and ye forsaid
  old Sr Raufe and he weren accordet yat ye yong Sr Raufe shold
  wedde Agnes daughter of ye forsaid Sr Ricrd Damory, and that Sir
  Raufe ye old shold be fyne reret at Chester, gife all his landes
  &c. to ye said Mr Ricrd his sonn, getten by ye forsaid Mary of
  Dacre and to his heires, and so it was done, and the sam Ricrd
  pson gyfe the sam lands &c. to ye sam old Sr Raufe againe to term
  of his Lyve; and after his dessease to ye yong Sr Rauf and to
  Agnes his Wyfe daughter to Sr Ricrd Damory, and to ye heires male
  of yr bodyes geten; for default of Issue mall of ye forsaid yong
  Sir Raufe and Agnes, yat all ye Landes &c. then Remaine to Ricrd
  ye Sonn of Raufe ye Vernon of Shibbrocke getten by Maud ye
  Grosvener, and to ye heires of his body begotten male, and for
  default of Issue of his body getten male, that all ye Landes &c.
  sholden remain to ye right heires of ye forsaid Mr Ricrd wthouten
  ende. Ye forsaid yong Sr Raufe and Agnes deyhten wthout Issue of
  hose bodyes begotten male, and yen entret Sr Raufe yat last
  deyhten as sonn and heir to Ricrd ye Vernon ye sonn of old Sr Rauf
  ye Vernon and Maude ye Grosevenor, by Vertue of ye fyne before
  rehersed. Ye forsaid Sr Rauf Ricrd son deyget wthout heir of his
  body getten mall, and so Sr Ricrd ye Vernon brother to yis last Sr
  Rauf entret heir male, and continued all his Lyfe and had Issue
  mulier Sr Ricrd ye quiche is now dead wthout Issue malle."

    C. DE D.


OLD TREES.--FAIRLOP OAK.

(Vol. v., p. 114.)

I have, in my scrap-book, a curious old print of Fairlop Oak, to which
some verses are attached, which I think is somewhat of a rarity. It is
on thin, miserable paper; size, demy quarto; without date or printer's
name; in general character bearing a very Catnachian aspect. The print
of the tree occupies nearly half the sheet, and is a most vile specimen
of both drawing and engraving. The tree is represented as in a
dilapidated condition, with a huge hollow trunk, within which are seen
some persons making themselves "jolly" at a drinking-table. The tree has
but five principal branches, and these are only tipped here and there
with foliage, the work of popular demolition under which the tree is
known to have fallen being plainly seen in its many barren branches, and
still more pointedly suggested by the four persons, who, having climbed
aloft, are airing themselves in the forks of its boughs. The background
is filled up with the incidents of the fair. To the right, in the
fore-ground, is one of the well-known "boats" mounted on wheels, the
deck manned by blockmakers "on their legs" singing a chorus. Behind, in
the distance, is a theatre or exhibition-booth, with the band and sundry
performers entertaining the crowd gratis; on the proscenium above is
written, ... GELL. CLARK. On the left hand is another of these
unclassical erections, with a man in front balancing himself on a
ladder; the name SAUNDERS being inscribed above. Below this is an
exhibition of a minor sort, and several groups of gaping cockneys. A
"boat," a booth, and a set of "knock 'em down" complete the scene; in
the latter case a woman caters for the encouragement of the English but
ignoble sport of "three throws a penny."[5] Below the print is a line in
large type (scarcely legible), announcing it to be "An original Drawing
by an eminent Artist [printed off] a Woodcut engraved on a Block of the
celebrated Tree." I transcribe literally what follows.

  [Footnote 5: Query, whence the origin of this fashionable
  accompaniment of cockney fairs?]

  "The Stem of this vegetable Progidy, which was [roughly hollowed
  (?)], measured, at 3 feet from the ground, about 36 feet in girth,
  and the boughs extended about 300 feet in circumference. The Fair
  which was held upon this spot was founded about the year 1720, by
  Mr. Daniel Day, Block Maker, of Wapping, who gave his men an
  annual Bean Feast, under the shade of the Oak, on the first Friday
  in July; and which has been visited for a number of years by the
  Block Makers and Watermen of the eastern part of the metropolis,
  who parade round the spot singing the following songs:--

      "_Song from the Block Makers' Boat, sung by Mr.
      Hemingway._

      "George, our great King, as he sat on the throne,
        The supporters of Fairlop sent in their petition,
      That he the old Oak in true wisdom would own,
        The answer returned from the head of the Nation,
      This we agree that the Maggot and Spot
        Never shall be crushed, but for ever shall reign.
      A Charter we have got to support the old Spot,
        And Fairlop shall flourish again and again.

      "This answer so noble abroad quickly spread,
        The enemy to friendship began to complain,
      That this Fair of mischief was surely the head,
        And if suffered would certainly soon show its aim.
      Down, cried he, with this Fairlop Tree;
        But George, ever generous, said, Cease to complain.
                                  A Charter we got, &c.

      "Freedom, the Goddess for Britons so fair,
        When she heard that a few of her supporters so free
      Did reverence the Oak which was always her care,
        And she said that the day ever sacred should be,
      The Maggot and Spot the care of us shall be,
        And never shall be crushed, but for ever shall reign.
                                  A Charter we got, &c.

      "Bright July now comes on, when we all are so gay,
        The first Friday in the month we all know,
      Our Maggot for ages shall shine on that day,
        And every year some new splendour shall show,
      When we agree that the Maggot and Spot
        Never shall be crushed, but for ever shall reign.
                                  A Charter we got, &c.

      "Now, my brave boys, since united we be,
        With friendship and harmony keep up the day;
      Our boat rigg'd and mann'd well, so pleasant to see,
        There's nothing can equal our Maggot so gay.
      A Toast now I say to good Daniel Day,
        Who taught us first this Fair to maintain.
                                  A Charter we got, &c.

      "_Written and sung by Mr. Lidard from the Watermen's
      Boat._

      "Come to Fairlop Fair, my good fellows invite,
      To partake of that day, that is our delight;
      For we have spirits like fire, our courage is good,
      And we meet with the best of respect on the road.
      Would you see us, you'd say, when we are muster'd quite gay,
      Success to the lads that delight in that day.
        Haste away, haste away, all nature seems gay,
        Let's drink to the joys of Fairlop so gay.

      Our horses are all of the very best blood,
      Our boat is well built and her rigging is good.
      With our flags and our badges we unanimous agree,
      And join hand-in-hand to s[up?]port the old Tree.
      There's old Cruff and young Cruff our music shall play,
      While George Hull's staunch ponies shall tow us away.
                                    Haste away, &c.

      'Twas one Daniel Day that invented this Fair,
      As hearty a fellow as ever was there;
      The lord of the manor our Charter did gain,
      And we sons of old Neptune will uphold the name:
      We'll enjoy all the pleasure that springs from the day,
      And ever remember that old Daniel Day.
                                    Haste away, &c.

      From Wapping Old Stairs away then we drive,
      Upon the first Friday that comes in July;
      We breakfast at Woodford, at Loughton we lunch,
      And return back to Rounden's, to dine and drink punch;
      Then our boatswain he starts us away to the Fair,
      While Phoebus does shine on our colours so clear.
                                    Haste away, &c.

      It's when from the forest to Ilford we steer,
      Every town we go thro' we'll give them three cheers;
      Then up to Tommy Wright's for to get refreshed there,
      Then return back to Wapping to sup of the best fare;
      Where we'll dance and sing so cheerful and gay,
      And ever remember that old Daniel Day.
                                    Haste away, &c.

      Now, having described our boats, horses, and crew,
      And our Fairlop so gay, which you all do review,
      Our boat she comes home by the winding of [ ... ],
      And now you are welcome into Fairlop Hall.
      Our boat we put by for another fair day,
      And ever remember that old Daniel Day.
                                    Haste away, &c.

  "A few years before Mr. Day died, his favourite oak lost a limb,
  out of which he procured a coffin to be made for his own
  interment, and often used to lie down in it, to try how it would
  fit him. He died October 13, 1767, aged eighty-four, and his
  remains were conveyed to Barking by water, pursuant of his own
  request, accompanied by six journeymen Block and Pump Makers, to
  each of whom he bequeathed a new leathern apron and a guinea."

So runs this historical and poetical (?) fragment. The first song I have
often heard sung, or rather bawled, by Mr. Hemingway from one of the
windows in the street which diverges out of the Mil-End Road, at the
"King's Arms." That was before I commenced my teens. Hemingway has long
since gone the way of Daniel Day; and Fairlop has lost so much of its
original vigour and popularity, as to be almost one of the things that
were.

There is an engraving of Fairlop Oak, as it appeared in 1806, in the
_Gentleman's Magazine_ for July, 1806, p. 617. I think that some
particulars of Fairlop Oak are given in Loudon's _Arboretum_. The
woodcut in the _Mirror_ referred to (p. 114.) bears some resemblance,
in the outline of the tree, to my specimen of the Catnach literature.

    SHIRLEY HIBBERD.

  [Our correspondent will also find a woodcut of the Catnach style
  prefixed to a pamphlet published in 1813, entitled _History,
  Origin, and Rise of Fairlop Fair; with a History and Description
  of the Forests of Essex, and an Account of Mr. Daniel Day, founder
  of Fairlop Fair_. Another tract with a similar title was published
  in 1795.--ED.]


TAYLOR FAMILY.

(Vol. v., p. 370.)

The first person of the name as Mayor of Worcester, occurring in 1648,
is James Taylor, Esq.; in 1666, Henry Taylor, Esq.; in 1675, Rowland
Taylor, Esq.; in 1731, Samuel Taylor, Esq. In 1732, James Saunders,
Esq., was elected, but, dying in his mayoralty, Samuel Taylor, Esq., was
re-elected, to serve the remainder of the year; and in 1737, a Samuel
Taylor, Esq., was again elected, and this is no doubt the same person,
making his third election.

It is, I think, evident from the following, which may be found in
Green's History of that city, vol. ii. p. 106. of Appendix, that their
burial-place was in a vault at the west end of the north aisle of St.
Helen's Church:--

  "Opposite the pulpit--Richard Taylor, Alderman of this city, died
  Nov. 11th, 1754, aged sixty-eight. There are several more of the
  same family interred under this stone."

In 1718, a Mr. Thomas Taylor, lay clerk, and in 1719, Elizabeth, wife of
Mr. Thomas Taylor, a lay clerk of this church (Worcester Cathedral),
were buried therein.

I think it very probable, from the orthography of the names being alike,
that the above parties were connected by family ties.

I do not find, either in my own MS., in Green's History, or any other
work, memorials of the same name in any other of the Worcester churches.

Nash, in his County History, gives the arms of Taylor of Welland, a
small village near Upton-on-Severn: "sable, a lion passant, argent."

On flat stones within the communion-rails of that (Welland) church are
the following inscriptions:--

  "Edmund Taylor, Esq., died 10 Jan., 1721, aged 55.

  "'Hic jacet Radulphus Taylor vir nullo non doctrin√¶ genere
  instructissimus uxorem duxit Penelopen filiam natu secundam
  Nicholai Lechmere de Hanleycastle, armigeri, quarto die Junii,
  obiit, A.D. 1676, √¶t. 39;' and several of their children are here
  buried.

  "Penelope Taylor, died 29 May, 1710, aged 62."

Arms on the stone.

I know of no family of the name resident in that city; but, having left
it many years, I am almost a stranger to its inhabitants. But I
recollect a gentleman of that name resident at Strensham, the
birth-place of the poet Butler (_Hudibras_), and who, to his honour, in
1843, erected a monument to the memory of that celebrated man, in the
church of his native village. His name was John Taylor, Esq.

    J. B. WHITBORNE.


Replies to Minor Queries.

_Portrait of Mesmer_ (Vol. v., p. 418.).--Your correspondent SIGMA may
be informed that there is an engraved portrait of Mesmer in tom. xiii.
p. 261. of the _Biographie Nouvelle des Contemporains_, Paris, 1824.

    TYRO.

  Dublin.

_Sleeveless_ (Vol. i., p. 439.).--Your correspondent might have found
"_sleeveless_ errand" explained by Tooke; and from him by Todd and
Richardson. It is "an errand without cover or pretext." Skinner, with
the word _sleeve_, A.-S. _slife_, tegmen, before his eyes, could write,
"_a liveless_ or lifeless errand." Earm-slife is "that with which the
arm is _covered_."

    Q.

_Barbarian_ (Vol. ii., p. 78.).--Gibbon observes that--

  "In the time of Homer, when the Greeks and Asiatics might probably
  use a common idiom, the imitative sound of _Bar-Bar_ was applied
  to the ruder tribes, whose pronunciation was most harsh, and whose
  grammar was most defective."

  Ch. 51. n. 162.

Tooke's suggestion is, that the Gr. Œ≤Œ±œÅœÖœÇ, strong, with a
reduplication of the first syllable Œ≤Œ±œÅ, gave the compound
Œ≤Œ±œÅ-Œ≤Œ±œÅŒøœÇ; their great strength being the characteristic for
which the barbarians were distinguished by the Greeks. (_Div. of
Purley_, vol. ii. p. 183. 8vo. ed.)

    Q.

"_O wearisome condition_" (Vol. iii., p. 241.).--Q. inquired after the
author of some remarkable verses quoted by Tillotson, beginning "O
wearisome conditions of humanity." By the kind assistance of the Rev. A.
Dyce, I am enabled to answer, that they are by Lord Brooke, in his
tragedy of _Mustapha_, and may be found at p. 159. of his _Works_, in
one vol. small folio, 1633.

    Q.

_The Meaning of "to be a Deacon"_ (Vol. v., p. 228.).--An allusion to
the fact, that to become a deacon (the first step in the priesthood) it
was necessary to have _the hair cut_, which is also done previous to
beheading. In Foxe's time the customs of the Roman church were known to
all.

    J. B. C.

_Dr. Richard Morton._--Perhaps the following brief particulars of this
celebrated physician may be acceptable to your correspondent M. A.
LOWER, Vol. v., p. 227. He was born in the county of Suffolk, educated
at Magdalen College, Oxford, where he became Chaplain of New College. He
was for some time chaplain, and probably tutor, to the Foley family in
Worcestershire; but after the Restoration took his degrees in medicine,
and became an eminent practitioner in London, dying at his residence in
Surrey in the year 1698. An engraved portrait of him, with the large
flowing wig of the period, now lies before me, with this inscription:

      "Richardus Morton, M.D.
      Colleg: Med: Lond: Soc."

I have not been able to discover whether this gentleman was related to
the Mortons of Severn Stoke, co. Worcester.

    J. B. WHITBORNE.

_Moravian Hymns_ (Vol. iv., pp. 30. 502.; Vol. v., pp. 113. 129.).--Your
correspondents having met with the third part only, I will describe the
first and second parts now before me. Both were printed for James
Hutton, London, 1746, who printed also _The Watchwords of the Covenant
in the Blood of Jesus for the Years 1743 and 1746_. They contain 403
hymns, and two supplements. I have sought in vain for the hymn in the
_New Bath Guide_, but the two following will show that Anstey did not
colour too highly.

Many circumstances concurred to render these books now very rare. The
impression was undoubtedly limited, and the wear and tear of
enthusiastic singers for above a century, of a 12mo. book of nearly a
thousand pages, very great. Unless preserved in "N. & Q.," the existence
of such hymns might be doubted some years hence, even by the religious
fraternity for whom they were compiled, and whose collection is now
widely different:

      "Jesu! our joy, and loving friend,
      Both thy dear wings around extend,
          Thy little chickens hide.
      Would Satan seize us as his prey,
      Then let the angels sing and say,
          This chick shall undisturb'd abide."

      P. 328.

      "My Jesus is my love,
      I am his little dove,
      Which flies upon his hands
      And there her food demands;
      Which wants herself to hide
      In that his bleeding side," &c.

      P. 548.

    E. D.

_Junius Rumours_ (Vol. v., pp. 125. 159.).--In spite of the memorable
declaration of Junius that his secret should perish with him, and the
hitherto unsatisfactory attempts that have been made to draw him from
his hiding-place, I have ever felt assured that he will eventually be
unearthed. After half a century's active exertion, the "Iron Mask" was
unveiled.

I recollect that, somewhere in Woodfall's edition, is a letter from
Junius, requiring a copy of the letters to be sent him, bound in a
particular manner and colour, which, at the time that edition came out,
was thought likely to afford a clue to the detection: some such casual
notice may not yet be unlikely to lead to the discovery. Many years
since, in conversation with an old officer, then barrack-master at
Pendennis Garrison, Captain Hall, he related a circumstance that
occurred when he was a boy, that curiously impressed itself on his
memory. His family and Woodfall's were intimate, and when about ten
years old he was taken by his mother to see Woodfall, whilst in prison
on account of the publication of these redoubtable letters.

During this visit a tea-service of plate was received by Woodfall as a
present from Junius, and was exhibited with no small degree of pride and
gratification. Surely two such circumstances could not occur without
being known to more than one or two persons; and had the inquiry been
keenly followed up, I think, not unreasonably, that a chance might be
afforded for the solution of the problem.

    JAMES CORNISH.

_Wyned_ (Vol. v., p. 321.).--The supposition that the initial _w_ of
this word may have been a misreading for _pa_, however ingenious, is not
tenable. Not having the MS. at hand (it is in the University Library,
Cambridge), I wrote to a learned friend there to request him to refer to
the passage. He assures me that the word is _wyned_, not _payned_.
Indeed, the precedent being fairly written in a clerkly hand, there was
little possibility of mistake. I beg, therefore, to leave the word in
the hands of your etymological reader for further suggestion or
explanation.

    C. W. G.

_The Tradescants_ (Vol. iii., pp. 119. 286. 391. 393. 469.; Vol. v., pp.
266. 367. 385.).--The ensuing Note, although it has no reference to
_the_ Tradescants who have been the subject of many interesting
communications in "N. & Q.," will, perhaps, not be considered
unacceptable; for, in conjunction with the mention made in the will of
the younger John Tradescant (p. 367.) of his "two namesakes, Robert
Tradescant and Thomas Tradescant of Walberswick in the Countie of
Suffolk," to whom the testator, if his love is to be estimated by the
amount of their legacies, would not appear to have borne much
esteem,--it establishes the fact that there was, at that time, at least
one collateral branch of the Tradescant family. I find in the town books
of Harleston, in Norfolk, the name of a _John Tredeskin_ as a resident
in that town in the year 1682-83, and of _Mr. Robert Tredeskin_ from
1683-84 to 1688-89 inclusive, and from that time to 1691-92 _Mrs.
Tradeskin_, widow, appears as the occupier, in the last year the name
being spelt _Tradescant_. The name also occurs in the Court Books of the
Manor of Harleston. Robert Tradescant, and Martha his wife, are
mentioned in 1687, and it appears that she survived and was afterwards
the wife of Charles Fox, gentleman. In 1721 John Tradescant is described
as son and heir of the said Robert and Martha, both deceased. I have not
met with it at a later period. Whether this Harleston family branched
from Walberswick, or whether either were actually related to the Lambeth
Tradescants,--for the term "namesake" does not of itself imply
relationship--is not certain, but both are at all events probable. I may
observe that the prefix _Mr._ indicated a person above the rank of a
tradesman, and such as we should now address upon a letter as "Esquire."

    G. A. C.

_Movable Organs and Pulpits_ (Vol. v., p. 345.).--Of the first-named
class of curious ecclesiastical structures I know of no examples; of one
of the latter, the following notice occurs in Mr. Wesley's _Journal_,
vol. iv. p. 213.:--

  "_Aug. 15 (1781)._ I went to Sheffield: in the afternoon I took a
  view of the chapel lately built by the Duke of Norfolk. One may
  safely say, there is none like it in the three kingdoms, nor, I
  suppose, in the world. It is a stone building, an octagon, about
  eighty feet in diameter.... The pulpit is movable: it rolls upon
  wheels; and is shifted once a quarter, that all the pews may face
  it in their turns: I presume the first contrivance of the kind in
  Europe."

This was an episcopal place of worship connected with a noble charity,
"The Shrewsbury Hospital," a suite of liberally-endowed almshouses for
old people of both sexes. The "chapel" in question, as well as the
almshouses, have, many years ago, given place to a large market. But I
must add, the charity still flourishes, and its recipients enjoy a suite
of beautiful little dwellings, and a commodious place of worship, in a
pleasant and airy part of "Sheffield Park."

    J. H.

There is a movable pulpit in Norwich Cathedral.

    J. B.

_Scologlandis and Scologi_ (Vol. v., p. 416.).--These words are derived
from _sgol√≥g_, a Celtic word meaning a farmer, a husbandman, and
probably denote the husbandlands and husbandmen holding the kirktoun
(church lands) of Ellon, or parts thereof. A distinction is drawn
between the husbandman and the cotter in an unpublished return to an
inquisition in 1450, concerning the payments and services due by certain
tenants of some ecclesiastical lands--"that is to say, of ylke husband
an thraf (threave) of corn and half an ferlot of meil, and of ylke coter
an pek." The husbands of church lands (bondi of Scotch charter Latin?)
were in all likelihood the "Kyndlie tenantis" of the church, who seem to
have had a sort of hereditary right to renewal of their leases on
payment of a fine, either taxed or uncertain. In a charter lately before
me, a lease of tithes was renewed to the holder as "Kyndlie tenant," on
payment of a grassum (equivalent to a fine), and it was declared that
the said tenant and his ancestors had held the vicarage land
hereditarily, past the memory of man, on payment of a rent, though the
said vicarage land belonged in property to the vicar. Neither _sgol√≥g_
nor _bondi_ are applicable to tenants of church lands exclusively. The
compilers of the Highland Society's _Gaelic Dictionary_ do not appear to
have met with the word _sgol√≥g_, or, if they did, have confounded it
with _scal√≥g_ or _sgal√≥g_, a boor, a hind, a countryman.

    DE CAMERA.

_St. Botolph_ (Vol. v., p. 396.).--Your correspondent A. B. has
anticipated an inquiry I was about to make as to the history of this
saint, which I am desirous of learning. It is a rather singular
circumstance that three churches dedicated to St. Botolph, and all of
ancient foundation, are situated immediately without gates of the city,
viz. at Aldgate, Bishopsgate, and Aldersgate. There was also before the
Great Fire a church similarly dedicated at Billingsgate, and a
water-gate, called Buttolph's gate (_vide_ Stow).

I can hardly imagine that this is merely a coincidence, and should be
glad to know whether any explanation can be given of it.

    J. R. J.

_Which are the Shadows?_ (Vol. v., p. 281.).--An extract from the
_Memoirs of Wordsworth_, vol. ii. p. 273., will throw some little light
on J. C. R.'s perplexities:

  "The anecdote of the saying of the monk, in sight of Titian's
  picture, was told me in this house (Rydal Mount) by Mr. Wilkie,
  and was, I believe, first communicated to the world in this poem,
  the former portion of which I was composing at the time ('Lines
  suggested by a Portrait by F. Stone, 1834'). Southey heard the
  story from Miss Hutchinson, and transferred it to the _Doctor_; my
  friend Mr. Rogers, in a note _subsequently_ added to his _Italy_,
  speaks of the same remarkable words having many years before been
  spoken in his hearing by a monk or priest in front of a picture of
  the Last Supper, placed over a refectory table in a convent at
  Padua."

It is much to be feared that this goes far towards reducing "the mild
Jeronymite's" remark to the established order of _stereotype_. On which
supposition, one need not wonder that--

                            "his griefs
      Melted away within him like a dream,
      Ere he had ceased to gaze, perhaps to speak."

    J.

_Nightingale and Thorn_ (Vol. iv., pp. 175. 242.; Vol. v., pp. 39.
305.).--Is it known to your correspondents who take an interest in this
subject, that the nightingale, when she builds her nest, _inserts a
thorn about an inch long in the centre of it_, probably to lean her
breast against.

During my angling excursions I often get comfortably housed at a little
farmer's in Berks, and in conversation with him, about two years ago,
relative to the habits of the nightingale, he mentioned this
peculiarity, adding that he carried a nest home with a thorn an inch
long built strongly through the middle of it. I recollected at the time
the subject had been treated by some of our poets, but was not aware
that it had any practical applicability.

In Berkshire they say of the nightingale's plaintive ditty:

      "I've a thorn in my breast,
      And can get no rest."

    MARYBONE.

_Groom of the Stole_ (Vol. v., p. 347.).--Your correspondent J. R.
(Cork) is in error when he asserts that the above-named office does not
belong to female majesty.

Among the collection of pictures at Montreal, in Kent, is a portrait
which was purchased at the sale at Strawberry Hill, in 1842, on the back
of which is the following inscription in the handwriting of Horace
Walpole:

  "Lady Elizabeth Percy, only daughter and heiress of Josceline,
  last Earl of Northumberland. She was first married to Henry Holles
  Cavendish, Lord Ogle, only son of Henry, Duke of Newcastle. 2ndly,
  To Thomas Thynne, Esquire, who was murdered by Count Konismark.
  And, lastly, to Charles Seymour Duke of Somerset. To Queen Anne
  she was groom of the stole, and had great influence."

  Vide Swift's _Journal_.

By Beatson's _Political Index_ it appears that her predecessor in this
office was Sarah, Duchess of Marlborough.

    E. H. Y.

_The De Clares_ (Vol. v., p. 261.).--I am sorry that I am unable to give
your correspondents, MR. GRAVES of Kilkenny, and E. H. Y., any
information on the subject of the De Clares. The pedigree from which I
quoted is not one of that family, but merely contains some few of them;
introduced, as I said before, among the "pr√¶clarissim√¶ affinitates." The
arms of Strongbow, Earl of Pembroke, are brought into the shield of
quarterings through the well-known line of Marshall, De Braose,
Cantelupe, La Zouche, and thence through Burdet and Ashbye; nor, with
the exceptions of the last three, is there much mention of each family,
but merely what is necessary to show their descent.

    H. C. K.

  ---- Rectory, Hereford.

_Book of Jasher_ (Vol. v., p. 415.).--You might have added to your list
of editions of this work, one printed at New York in 1840, a number of
copies of which have been recently sent to this country. The title is
_The Book of Jasher, referred to in Joshua and Second Samuel, faithfully
translated from the Original Hebrew_, 8vo. pp. 267. It was published
with the recommendations of many learned men in America, one of which by
Prof. Noah, who appears to be the translator, I think worth extracting
as giving some idea of the character of the book:--

  "Without giving it to the world as a work of divine inspiration,
  or assuming the responsibility to say that it is not an inspired
  book, I have no hesitation in pronouncing it a work of great
  antiquity and interest, and a work that is entitled, even
  regarding it as a literary curiosity, to a great circulation among
  those who take pleasure in studying the Scriptures."

    WM. BROWN, Jun., Bibliop.

  Old Street.

I have read this book formerly. It is the _jeu d'esprit_ of an
unbeliever. The drift of it is, to present a cotemporary naturalist
account of the Mosaic and Josuetic histories, in opposition to the
supernatural histories in the Bible. But I remember seeing announced
among the intended publications of the Oriental Translation Fund, the
"Book of Jasher." That proves a work, so entitled, to exist in some
oriental language. What has become of that manuscript; and why was the
translation of it never printed, as promised? I have long wished to
learn.

    A. N.

_Chantrey's Sleeping Children_ (Vol. v., p. 428.).--In a highly
interesting and pathetic volume of elegiac poetry, written by Sir Brooke
Boothby (and published in London by Cadell and Davies, 1796), entitled
_Sorrows Sacred to the Memory of Penelope_, is contained a fine
engraving of the exquisite recumbent figure by Banks in Ashbourne
Church, referred to by your correspondent. Perhaps you will afford room
for the quotation of the following sonnet (_Sorrows_, p. 18.), which may
interest readers unacquainted with the volume:

      SONNET XII.

      "Well has thy classick chisel, Banks, express'd
      The graceful lineaments of that fine form,
      Which late with conscious, living beauty warm,
      Now here beneath does in dread silence rest.
      And, oh, while life shall agitate my breast,
      Recorded there exists her every charm,
      In vivid colours, safe from change or harm,
      Till my last sigh unalter'd love attest.
        That form, as fair as ever fancy drew,
      The marble cold, inanimate, retains;
      But of the radiant smile, that round her threw
      Joys, that beguiled my soul of mortal pains,
      And each divine expression's varying hue,
      A little senseless dust alone remains."

    H. G. T.

  Weston super Mare.

_Daniel De Foe_ (Vol. v., p. 392.).--Your correspondent, on referring to
Wilson's _Life of De Foe_ (vol. iii. p. 648.), will find some mention of
John Joseph De Foe, his unfortunate great-grandson (not grandson), who
was executed at Tyburn, January 2, 1771. In the _Sessions Papers for
1770-1_ (p. 25.), he will also find the trial of John Clark and John
Joseph Defoe, otherwise Brown, otherwise Smith, for the robbery, on the
King's highway, of Alexander Fordyce, Esq. There seems to have been no
distinct identification of De Foe as one of the parties committing the
robbery; but in those days juries did not stand upon trifles, and he had
but little grace accorded to him. He was probably the grandson of
Daniel's second son, Bernard Norton De Foe, the abused of Pope; but this
is not quite certain.

Of the descendant of Daniel De Foe, who lived in or adjoining Hungerford
Market, your correspondent will also find mention in Wilson (vol. iii.
p. 649.). In all probability there are many descendants of this great
man now living in this country or abroad.

Your correspondent is under a mistake as to Robert Drury's Journal. The
first edition of that work, which I have now before me, came out in
1729, and therefore could not have been made use of by De Foe in writing
_Robinson Crusoe_, published ten years before. How far Drury's Journal
is true or fictitious, and by whom it was written, are curious
questions; but to attempt their solution would be out of place in this
reply.

    JAS. CROSSLEY.

_Howard's Conquest of China_ (Vol. v., p. 225.).--Is J. MT. satisfied
that the scene written by the Earl of Rochester does not form part of
Elkanah Settle's play, _The Conquest of China by the Tartars_ (1676,
4to.)? It is also written in rhyme; and Rochester was, as is well known,
a patron of Settle. If J. MT. have not referred to it, it may be worth
while to do so, or to give a few lines from the scene, to afford an
opportunity of ascertaining the point.

    JAS. CROSSLEY.

_Buro, Berto, Beriora_ (Vol. v., p. 395.).--A satisfactory explanation
of these three words is much to be desired, as they have puzzled the
antiquary, the linguist, and the classical scholar for nearly forty
years. They remind me of a similar case I met with in my reading not
long ago. The word _Ilpadelt_, painted on the windows of the church of
the Celestines at Marconcies, was the puzzle of all that read it, till
one day a Turk, who had received baptism, and was in the suite of
Francis I., came to Marconcies in the year 1523, and discovered that the
word was _Syriac_, and that it meant "God is my hope;" which explanation
was registered in the abbey library. These words had been the motto of
John de Montaign, who had founded the abbey, and enriched it with many
valuable treasures, according to a vow he had made during the sickness
of Charles VI.

However, if it will not disconcert the learned, I will, _audax omnia
perpati_, venture upon a conjecture as to the meaning of these hidden
words. Ought not the first letters, thought to be _Bu_, in reality to be
read _Pro_? in which case the legend will be _Pro Roberti Beri ora_,
_i.e._ pray for Robert Berry; and the ring will be a mourning ring.

While on this subject, I may add that the inscribed rings, commonly
called _talismanic_ or _cabalistic_ rings, are improperly so designated.
The Latin term is much more appropriate, "annuli vertuosi." Perhaps
_mystical_ might be a suitable name.

    CEYREP.

_Where was Cromwell buried?_ (Vol. v., p. 396.).--A. B. will find that
the interesting inquiry relative to the last resting-place of Cromwell,
has been investigated in a little work by Henry Lockinge, M.A., late
curate of Naseby, entitled _Historical Gleanings on the Memorable Field
of Naseby_, published in 1830. Mr. Lockinge, besides alluding to the
"Memoranda" of the vicar, the Rev. W. Marshall, on the subject, adduces
evidence, apparently satisfactory, which leaves the Protector's remains
slumbering, "uncommemorated, beneath the turf of Naseby Field."

    OLIVER PEMBERTON.

  Birmingham.

_Glass-making in England_ (Vol. v., pp. 322. 382.).--Allow me to refer
MR. CATO to the late Mr. Turner's work on _Domestic Architecture of the
Middle Ages_. He will there find (pp. 73-83.) an interesting digression
on the history of glass-making, and its introduction into domestic use.
In addition to the facts contained in that work, the following anecdote
from my common-place book may not be altogether uninteresting. It is
recorded with gratitude that Robert de Lindesay, chosen Abbot of
Peterborough in 1214, beautified thirty of the monastic windows with
glass, which previously had been stuffed with straw to keep out the cold
and rain. (Gunton's _Hist. Ch. Peterborough_, p. 27.; Stevens'
_Continuation of Dugdale's Monasticon_, vol. i. p. 478.)

    F. SOMNER MERRYWEATHER.

_The Surname Devil_ (Vol. v., p. 370.).--In answer to your
correspondent, who inquires whether there are any persons named _Devil_,
I beg to say that there is (or was, two years since) a person of that
name, a labouring man, residing in the hamlet of Aston, in the parish of
Hope, Derbyshire. Whether there are more of the name living there, I am
unable to state; but I remember distinctly hearing of one, and the name
being so peculiar, fixed itself in my memory.

    R. C. C.




Miscellaneous.


NOTES ON BOOKS, ETC.

There can be little doubt that the beneficent intentions which prompted
the late Earl of Bridgewater to bequeath 8000_l._ for the production of
a work _On the Power, Wisdom, and Goodness of God, as manifested in the
Creation_, were fully realised, when the late Mr. Davies Gilbert, the
then President of the Royal Society, to whom the duty of carrying out
such intentions was allotted, did, with the assistance of the Archbishop
of Canterbury and the Bishop of London, select for that purpose the very
eminent men to whom the world is indebted for the now well-known series
of books entitled _The Bridgewater Treatises_. And there can be as
little doubt that the republication, in a more popular form, of these
Essays, written by men most eminent for their scientific attainments,
and for the noble purpose of proving the consistency of the works with
the Word of God, is a still further carrying out of the original
intentions of the testator. We are therefore glad to see that they are
to form a portion of Bohn's _Scientific Library_. The first
volume--being the first also of the Rev. W. Kirby's Treatise _On the
History, Habits, and Instincts of Animals_, revised by Professor Rymer
Jones, who has added a few notes to the text explanatory of omissions
and errors incidental to the condition of zoological knowledge at the
time of its publication, and with the addition of many new woodcuts--has
just been issued, and is destined, we trust, to be circulated throughout
the whole length and breadth of the land.

Our readers who take an interest in the literature of Germany will be
pleased to hear that the _Deutsches W√∂rterbuch_ of the Brothers Grimm,
the announcement of which fourteen years since created so much
excitement, is at press, and that the first portion of it may very
shortly be expected in this country. From the specimen which has been
forwarded to us by Messrs. Williams and Norgate, we think we may safely
assure our readers that, while on the one hand the work will be found
such as to do justice to the well-known acquirements of its
distinguished authors, it will not be found to be so overlaid with
learning as to be only fit for the use of profound philologists.

Messrs. Murray and Longman continue stedfast in their good work of
supplying the still increasing demand for works of real value at
moderate prices. The _Reading for the Rail_ has, since we last called
attention to the series, been enriched with James's _Fables of √Üsop_,
with one hundred original and beautiful woodcuts designed by John
Tenniel; with the _Sketch of Theodore Hook_, from which we quoted in our
last Number; and with an admirable collection of stories of naval
heroism, under the title of _Deeds of Naval Daring_.

Messrs. Longman, on the other hand, have added to their _Traveller's
Library_ one of the most interesting and curious books of travels in
Africa ever given to the public, we allude to Ferdinand Werne's _Feldzug
nach Taka_, the merits of which were recently pointed out in
_Blackwood's Magazine_, and which Mr. Johnston has well translated,
under the title of _African Wanderings; or an Expedition to Taka, Basa,
and Beni-Amer, with a Particular Glance at the Races of Bellad Sudan_. A
more interesting book for the traveller, or the stayer at home, we have
not met with for some time.


BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES

WANTED TO PURCHASE.

THE BRITISH POETS. Whittingham's edition in 100 Vols., with plates.

REPOSITORY OF PATENTS AND INVENTIONS. Vol. XLV. 2nd Series. 1824.

  ---- Vol. V. 3rd Series. 1827.

NICHOLSON'S PHILOSOPHICAL JOURNAL. Vols. XIV. XV. 1806.

JOURNAL OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION OF GREAT BRITAIN. No. XI. 2nd Series.

SOROCOLD'S BOOK OF DEVOTIONS.

WORKS OF ISAAC BARROW, D.D., late Master of Trinity College. Cambridge.
London, 1683. Vol. I. Folio.

LINGARD'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND. Vols. VI. VII. VIII. IX. XII. XIII.,
cloth.

FABRICII BIBLIOTHECA LATINA. Ed. Ernesti. Leipsig, 1773. Vol. III.

THE ANACALYPSIS. By Godfrey Higgins. 2 Vols. 4to.

CODEX DIPLOMATICUS √ÜVI SAXONICI, opera J. M. Kemble. Vols. I. and II.
8vo.

ECKHEL, DOCTRINA NUMORUM. Vol. VIII.

BROUGHAM'S MEN OF LETTERS. 2nd Series, royal 8vo., boards. Original
edition.

KNIGHT'S PICTORIAL SHAKSPEARE. Royal 8vo. Parts XLII. XLIII. XLIV. L.
and LI.

CONDER'S ANALYTICAL VIEW OF ALL RELIGIONS. 8vo.

HALLIWELL ON THE DIALECTS OF SOMERSETSHIRE.

SCLOPETARIA, OR REMARKS ON RIFLES, &c.

SOWERBY'S ENGLISH FUNGI. Vol. III.

SUPPLEMENT TO SOWERBY'S ENGLISH FUNGI.

EUROPEAN MAGAZINE. Vols. XXIII. XXIV. and XXV.

POETIC WREATH. Small 8vo. Newman.

GEMS FROM BRITISH POETS. 4 Vols. Tyas.

THE WORKS OF LORD BYRON. Vols. VI. VII. and VIII. 12mo. Murray, 1823.

THE MATHEMATICIAN. Vol. I. No. I. 1844.

  [Star symbol] Letters, stating particulars and lowest price,
  _carriage free_, to be sent to MR. BELL, Publisher of "NOTES AND
  QUERIES," 186. Fleet Street.


Notices to Correspondents.

REPLIES RECEIVED.--_The Book of Jasher--Samuel Horsey--Ground Ice--"And
Tye"--Surnames--Old China--Enigma on the Letter H--Thomas
Crawford--Monument of Queen Mary at Antwerp--Nine Days' Wonder,
&c.--Lothian's "Scottish Historical Atlas"--We three--The Lass of
Richmond Hill--Nottinghamshire Provincialisms, &c.--Showing the White
Feather--Salmon Fisheries--Sweet Singers--Boiling to Death--Nightingale
and Thorn--Sites of Buildings mysteriously changed--The
Azores--Corrupted Names of Places--Wedgewood Family--Sir A.
Hungerford--Countess of Middleton--Algernon Sidney--Gilbert de
Clare--Blind taught to read--Miller's Melody, &c._ (_from_ F. P.
P.)--_The Holy Shove--Moravian Hymns--Burials in Woollen--Memoria
Technica--Cagots--Fides Carbonarii--Philip Quarl--Bishop of London's
House._

_We have been compelled this week, by want of space, to omit numerous
articles of great interest which are in type._

H. C. D. _is thanked. His communication shall receive early attention_.

R. I. S., _who inquires who were the authors of certain articles in the_
Anti-Jacobin, _is referred to our 3rd Volume, particularly to_ p. 348.

VOX. _What request did our correspondent make? We cannot understand his
letter. Surely he does not_ seriously _ask whether there is any charge
for the insertion of Queries._

A CONSTANT READER. _Admission to the Brompton Hospital is, we believe,
by order from a Governor. Is the case to which our Correspondent refers
one of great urgency?_

C--S. T. P. _We inserted the Latin epigram when it appeared, but there
are many reasons why we cannot avail ourselves of the very happy English
translation offered by our Correspondent._

W. (Cambridge). _Will our Correspondent who writes so gravely on the
antiquity of the_ Joneses _(including of course Davy Jones) favour us
with the name of the profound thinker at the University of Berlin to
whom he alludes?_

_Neat Cases for holding the Numbers of_ "N. & Q." _until the completion
of each Volume are now ready, price 1s. 6d., and may be had_ by order
_of all booksellers and newsmen._

"NOTES AND QUERIES" _is published at noon on Friday, so that the Country
Booksellers may receive Copies in that night's parcels, and deliver them
to their Subscribers on the Saturday._

Errata.--Page 361. col. 2. l. 6. for "habit_u_s," read "habit_a_s;" p.
367. col. 2. l. 30. for "_crest_" read "_coat_;" p. 448. col. 1. l. 4.,
for "campan_u_m," read "campan_a_m."




THE GRENVILLE AND STOWE PAPERS.

  Now ready, 2 vols. 8vo., 32_s._ (to be completed in Four Volumes),

  THE CORRESPONDENCE of GEORGE GRENVILLE, and his brother Earl
  Temple, their Friends and Contemporaries, including Mr.
  Grenville's Diary of Events. Edited by WILLIAM JAMES SMITH, ESQ.,
  formerly Librarian at Stowe.

    "There is scarcely a letter or a page in these volumes which does
    not tend to elucidate some obscure point in the history of the
    period.... We must be contented with the expression of our opinion
    as to the great historical value of this work, and our
    satisfaction at the able and careful manner in which it has been
    prepared and edited."--_Athen√¶um._

  JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street.


MR. GROTE'S HISTORY OF GREECE.

  Now ready, with Maps, Vols. I. to X., 8vo., 16_s._ each.

  A HISTORY OF GREECE. From the earliest period down to the
  Accession of Philip of Macedon, B.C. 403-359. By GEORGE GROTE,
  Esq.

    "A great literary undertaking, equally notable whether we regard
    it as an accession to what is of standard value in our language,
    or as an honourable monument of what English scholarship can
    do."--_Athen√¶um._

  JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street.


With portrait, 8vo., 10_s._ 6_d._

  HISTORY OF GUSTAVUS VASA, KING OF SWEDEN. With Extracts from his
  Correspondence.

    "A welcome addition to our scant popular library on Scandinavian
    History. From first to last the writer holds the even tenour of
    his way. All with him is sober in the thought, careful in the
    research, and elaborate in the criticism."--_Athen√¶um._

    "A new and valuable contribution to English historical
    literature. Every part of the work bears mark of diligent
    research, and the materials are arranged with skill and
    taste."--_Literary Gazette._

    "So full of information that we recommend it to all who take an
    interest in the early history of the Reformation, and who are
    anxious to trace how far the political condition of the northern
    states of Europe of the present day is owing to the operation of
    that great and glorious work."--_Britannia._

  JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street.


MURRAY'S RAILWAY READING.

  Now ready, fcap. 8vo., 4_s._

  LITERARY ESSAYS FROM "THE TIMES:" being a Selection from the
  Historical and Biographical Papers which have appeared in that
  Journal. Reprinted for the Rail, by Permission of the Proprietors.

      CONTENTS:
      Lord Nelson and Lady Hamilton.
      Railway Novels.
      Louis Philippe and his Family.
      John Howard.
      Drama of the French Revolution.
      Lord Holland's Reminiscences.
      Robert Southey.
      Dean Swift--Stella and Vanessa.
      Reminiscences of Coleridge.
      John Keats.
      Grote's History of Greece.
      Literature of the Rail.

  JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street.


This day, woodcuts, post 8vo.

  AN ACCOUNT of the DANES and NORWEGIANS in ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, and
  IRELAND. By J. A. A. WORSAAE, F.S.A.

    "The writer is a man of great acuteness and intelligence, and of
    varied acquisitions."--_Athen√¶um._

    "The book is one of great learning, and no small interest. It is
    an important contribution to the library of the antiquary and the
    historian."--_Gentleman's Magazine._

  JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street.


MOURNING.--COURT, FAMILY, and COMPLIMENTARY.--The Proprietor of THE
LONDON GENERAL MOURNING WAREHOUSE begs respectfully to remind families
whose bereavements compel them to adopt Mourning Attire, that every
article of the very best description, requisite for a complete outfit of
Mourning, may be had at this Establishment at a moment's notice.

  ESTIMATES FOR SERVANTS' MOURNING, affording a great savings to
  families, are furnished; whilst the habitual attendance of
  experienced assistants (including dressmakers and milliners),
  enables them to suggest or supply every necessary for the
  occasion, and suited to any grade or condition of the community.
  WIDOWS' AND FAMILY MOURNING is always kept made up, and a note,
  descriptive of the Mourning required, will insure its being sent
  forthwith, either in Town or into the Country, and on the most
  Reasonable Terms.

  W. C. JAY, 247-249. Regent Street.


This day is published, in Three vols., fcap. 8vo., price One Guinea.

  VOICES OF THE DEAD; VOICES OF THE NIGHT; VOICES OF THE DAY. By the
  Rev. JOHN CUMMING, D.D.

  [Star symbol] Each Vol. may be had separately, price 7_s._


This day is published, post 8vo., cloth, price 7_s._

  NO CONDEMNATION IN CHRIST JESUS, as unfolded in the 8th Chapter of
  Romans. By the Rev. OCTAVIUS WINSLOW, D.D.

  By the same Author,

  GLIMPSES OF THE TRUTH AS IT IS IN JESUS. Fourth Edition. Fcap.
  8vo., cloth, price 5_s._


This day is published, fcap. 8vo., cloth, price 5_s._

  BLOOMSBURY LENT LECTURES FOR 1852.--THE MILLENNIAL KINGDOM; being
  Lectures delivered during Lent, 1852, at St. George's, Bloomsbury.
  By Twelve Clergymen of the Church of England. With a Preface by
  the Rev. W. R. FREMANTLE, M.A., Rector of Clayden, Bucks.

  [Star symbol] Each Lecture may be had separately, price 4_d._

  JOHN F. SHAW, 27. Southampton Row, Russell Square, and Paternoster
  Row.


THREATENED DEMOLITION OF THE CRYSTAL PALACE.

  In consequence of many thousands of persons in the United Kingdom
  having been unable to obtain a Copy of the GREAT EXHIBITION CHART,
  printed in Colours, and presented by the Proprietors of the WEEKLY
  DISPATCH, to their Subscribers and the Public, in the months of
  January and February last, A RE-ISSUE has been determined upon, to
  take place on SUNDAY the 16th of MAY. The Chart, which has
  undergone a careful revision, shows by simple diagrams the number
  of persons that visited the Exhibition daily, the amount of money
  taken at the various entrances, the quantity of refreshments
  consumed; the names of the Royal Commissioners; all account of the
  origin of the Palace, and its dimensions in feet. In order that
  every individual in the country may possess this statistical
  reflex of curious and interesting results, to mark the demolition
  of the building, and to serve as a memento of its existence, the
  Chart will be delivered GRATIS to every Subscriber and Purchaser
  of the DISPATCH on the day stated.

  [Star symbol] The DISPATCH is published at 4 o'clock every
  Saturday morning, in time for the First Railway Trains leaving
  London, and for the Morning Mails. Early orders should be given to
  any Newsvendor, in Town and Country; or to MR. R. J. WOOD, No.
  139. Fleet Street.

  N. B. The News Agents will have a Copy of the Chart with every
  DISPATCH of May 16th.


CIGARS OF THE CHOICEST IMPORTATIONS at GREATLY REDUCED PRICES for CASH.
The First Class Brands. "Ptarga," "Flor Cabana," &c., 28_s._ per pound.
British Cigars from 8_s._ 6_d._ per pound. Lord Byron's, 14_s._ 6_d._,
very fine flavour. Genuine Latakia, 10_s._ 6_d._ per pound, delicious
aroma. Every Description of Eastern and American Tobaccos. Meerschaum
Pipes, Cigar Cases, Stems, Porte Monnaies, &c. &c. of the finest
qualities, considerably under the Trade Prices.

  J. F. VARLEY & CO., Importers.

  The HAVANNAH STORES, 364. Oxford Street, opposite the Princess's
  Theatre.


WESTERN LIFE ASSURANCE AND ANNUITY SOCIETY, 3. PARLIAMENT STREET,
LONDON. Founded A.D. 1842.

      _Directors._
      H. Edgeworth Bicknell, Esq.
      William Cabell, Esq.
      T. Somers Cocks, Jun. Esq. M.P.
      G. Henry Drew, Esq.
      William Evans, Esq.
      William Freeman, Esq.
      F. Fuller, Esq.
      J. Henry Goodhart, Esq.
      T. Grissell, Esq.
      James Hunt, Esq.
      J. Arscott Lethbridge, Esq.
      E. Lucas, Esq.
      James Lys Seager, Esq.
      J. Basley White, Esq.
      Joseph Carter Wood, Esq.

      _Trustees._
      W. Whateley, Esq., Q.C.
      L. C. Humfrey, Esq., Q.C.
      George Drew, Esq.

      _Consulting Counsel._--Sir Wm. P. Wood, M.P.
      _Physician._--William Rich. Basham, M.D.
      _Bankers._--Messrs. Cocks, Biddulph, and Co., Charing Cross.

  VALUABLE PRIVILEGE.

  POLICIES effected in this Office do not become void through
  temporary difficulty in paying a Premium, as permission is given
  upon application to suspend the payment at interest, according to
  the conditions detailed in the Prospectus.

  Specimens of Rates of Premium for Assuring 100_l._, with a Share
  in three-fourths of the Profits:--

      Age     ¬£  _s._ _d._
      17      1   14    4
      22      1   18    8
      27      2    4    5
      32      2   10    8
      37      2   18    6
      42      3    8    2

  ARTHUR SCRATCHLEY, M.A., F.R.A.S., Actuary.

  Now ready, price 10_s._ 6_d._, Second Edition, with material
  additions, INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT and EMIGRATION; being a TREATISE
  on BENEFIT BUILDING SOCIETIES, and on the General Principles of
  Land Investment, exemplified in the Cases of Freehold Land
  Societies, Building Companies, &c. With a Mathematical Appendix on
  Compound Interest and Life Assurance. By ARTHUR SCRATCHLEY, M.A.,
  Actuary to the Western Life Assurance Society, 3. Parliament
  Street, London.


CHEAP TEA and CHEAP COFFEE.--Although we sell black tea at 3_s._ per
lb., and good black tea at 3_s._ 4_d._, strong coffee at 10_d._, and
fine coffee at 1_s._ per lb., we still say to all who study economy,
that the best is the cheapest, particularly when the best can be
obtained from us at the following prices:--The best congou tea, 3_s._
8_d._ per lb.; the best souchong tea, 4_s._ 4_d._; the best gunpowder
tea, 5_s._ 8_d._ per lb.; the best old mocha coffee, 1_s._ 4_d._ per
lb.; the best West India coffee, 1_s._ 4_d._ per lb. The fine, true,
ripe, rich, rare souchong tea is now only 4_s._ per lb.; and the pure,
rich, rare gunpowder, 5_s._ per lb. Tea or coffee to the value of 40_s._
sent carriage free to any part of England, by PHILLIPS and CO., Tea
Merchants, 8. King William Street, City.


AHRENS'S GREEK READER, BY ARNOLD.

  In 12mo., price 3_s._

  AN ELEMENTARY GREEK READER, from HOMER. From the German of Dr.
  AHRENS, Director of the Lyceum at Hanover, Author of A Treatise on
  the Greek Dialects. With Grammatical Introduction, Notes, and
  Glossary. Edited by the Rev. T. K. ARNOLD, M.A., Rector of Lyndon,
  and late Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge.

    "The Homeric Poems are the best key both to the spirit and form of
    Grecian Literature in general."--_Preface._

  RIVINGTONS, St. Paul's Church Yard, and Waterloo Place;

  Of whom may be had (edited by the Rev. T. K. ARNOLD),

  1. HOMER for BEGINNERS: the ILIAD, Books I. to III., with ENGLISH
  NOTES. 3_s._ 6_d._

  2. HOMERI ILIAS, Lib. I.-IV., with copious CRITICAL INTRODUCTION
  and ENGLISH NOTES. 7_s._ 6_d._

  3. HOMERI ILIAS, COMPLETE EDITION, with ENGLISH NOTES. 12_s._


CURIOUS CUTTINGS FROM ANCIENT NEWSPAPERS, GAZETTES, MAGAZINES,&c.,
illustrative of the following English Counties, may be obtained of MR.
JAMES FENNELL, 1. WARWICK COURT, HOLBORN, LONDON, immediately upon the
receipt of a remittance for the prices here stated, viz.: BEDFORDSHIRE,
a parcel of highly interesting Cuttings (1724 to 1767), some Prints,
&c., 12_s._ 6_d._; BERKSHIRE, very curious Cuttings (1670 to 1723), rare
Views, Books, old Deeds, &c., the entire parcel only 2_l._ 2_s._;
BUCKINGHAMSHIRE CUTTINGS (1681 to 1838), various old Views and other
Prints, some rare, 18_s._ 6_d._; CAMBRIDGE CUTTINGS (1680 to 1850),
Views and Pamphlets, 12_s._ 6_d._; CHESHIRE CUTTINGS, old Play-Bills,
Prints, &c., 12_s._ 6_d._; CUMBERLAND CUTTINGS (1762 to 1821), curious
Maps, Views, &c., 10_s._ 6_d._; ISLE OF MAN CUTTINGS (1765 to 1810),
rare Tracts, &c. A very interesting collection, 1_l._; DURHAM CUTTINGS
(1749 to 1800), several Views, &c., some rare, Moule's Topography of the
County, with a Map, the entire parcel only 1_l._ 1_s._; ESSEX CUTTINGS
(1680 to 1850), several old Views of Abbeys, Churches, &c., some scarce,
curious Tract on Colchester Marriages, and other articles, the whole lot
only 1_l._ 1_s._; HAMPSHIRE CUTTINGS (1679 to 1846), old Southampton
Play-bills, Moule's Topography, Views, and Maps, 1_l._; HERTFORDSHIRE
CUTTINGS (1679 to 1836), some rare Prints, and Map, 1_l._ 1_s._;
HUNTINGDON CUTTINGS (1681 to 1776), curious and old Tracts, Maps, &c.,
10_s._ 6_d._

  Collections relative to other Counties may be had also.


Now ready, Two New Volumes (price 28_s._ cloth) of

  THE JUDGES OF ENGLAND and the Courts at Westminster. By EDWARD
  FOSS, F.S.A.

      Volume Three, 1272-1377.
      Volume Four, 1377-1485.

  Lately published, price 28_s._ cloth,

      Volume One, 1066-1199.
      Volume Two, 1199-1272.

    "A book which is essentially sound and truthful, and must
    therefore take its stand in the permanent literature of our
    country."--_Gent. Mag._

  London: LONGMAN & CO.


This day, Two vols. 8vo., 28_s._

  ON THE METHODS OF OBSERVATION and REASONING IN POLITICS. By G.
  CORNEWALL LEWIS, M.P.

  By the same,

  ON THE INFLUENCE OF AUTHORITY IN MATTERS of OPINION. 10_s._ 6_d._

  FABLES OF BABRIUS. With Notes. 5_s._ 6_d._

  BOECK'S ECONOMY OF ATHENS. 18_s._

  London: JOHN W. PARKER & SON, West Strand.


In One thick volume, the Tenth Edition, much enlarged, price 16_s._

  MODERN DOMESTIC MEDICINE: A Popular Treatise, exhibiting the
  Nature, Symptoms, Causes, and most efficacious Treatment of
  Diseases; with a Collection of approved Prescriptions, Directions
  for Diet and Regimen; the means of affording Assistance in
  Accidents, and other cases of emergency, Management of Children,
  Doses of Medicines, &c. Forming a comprehensive Medical Guide for
  the Clergy, Families, and Invalids, in the absence of their
  Medical Adviser. By T. J. GRAHAM, M.D., Member of the Royal
  College of Surgeons of England.

    "_One object_ is prominently evident--the author's sincere desire
    to benefit his suffering fellow-creatures. To recommend a work
    like the present to our readers, is only to manifest a proper
    regard for their welfare."--_Literary Journal_, Feb. 1843.

    "It is altogether deserving of permanent popularity."--_London
    Weekly Review._

    "Undoubtedly the best medical work for private families in the
    English language. It is invaluable."--_Literary Times_, April,
    1852.

  Published by SIMPKIN & Co., Paternoster Row; HATCHARDS, 187.
  Piccadilly; and TEGG & Co., 85. Queen Street, Cheapside. Sold by
  all Booksellers.


THE ANNUAL REGISTER. A Copy of this Work, Vols. I. to LXXXV. (1758 to
1843), newly and beautifully half-bound in calf, to be sold for 12_l._
The first and the last vols., or specimens of the whole, may be seen at
the Office of

  MESSRS. MAXWELL & CO., 31. Nicholas Lane, Lombard Street, London.

  Applications by Post to be directed R. B. to above address.


DETAILS OF GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE, measured and drawn from existing
Examples by JAMES K. COLLING, Architect, Part XVIII. 2_s._ 6_d._

      CONTENTS:--
      Window from Wittersham Church, Kent, and Kenilworth Abbey.
      Windows from Cliffe Church, Kent.
      Doorway, Rye, Sussex.
      Wooden Screen, St. Peter's Church, Sudbury.
      Benches from Little Waldingfield (Sudbury), Leicester and
          Geddington.

  London: DAVID BOGUE, Fleet Street, GEORGE BELL, 186. Fleet Street.


SALE OF BOOKS.

  MR. WILLIAM WHITE will sell by Auction, at the PUBLIC SALE and
  EXHIBITION ROOM, DURHAM, on TUESDAY and WEDNESDAY, the 18th and
  19th instant, the Library of a Gentleman, deceased.--Catalogues
  may be had of Mr. George Andrews, Bookseller, Durham.


CAMBRIDGE BOOKS.

  ADAMS'S PRIZE, 1850.

  The THEORY of the LONG INEQUALITY of URANUS and NEPTUNE, depending
  on the near Commensurability of their Mean Motions. An Essay. By
  R. PEIRSON, M.A., Fellow of St. John's College. 6_s._

  A SERIES of FIGURES illustrative of GEOMETRICAL OPTICS, reduced
  from Steel Engravings executed by F. Engel, under the direction of
  Professor K. Schellbach, of Berlin; together with an Explanation,
  forming a Treatise, translated from the German of Professor
  Schellbach. The whole Edited, with Notes and an Appendix, by W. B.
  HOPKINS, M.A., Fellow and Tutor of St. Catharine's Hall, and
  formerly Fellow and Mathematical Lecturer of Gonville and Caius
  College, Cambridge. Demy folio, 10_s._ 6_d._

  SOLID GEOMETRY, a Treatise on the Application of Analysis to.
  Commenced by D. F. GREGORY, M.A., late Fellow and Assistant Tutor
  of Trinity College, Cambridge: concluded by W. WALTON, M.A.,
  Trinity College, Cambridge. Second Edition, revised and corrected.
  8vo. 12_s._

  ELEMENTARY MECHANICS: designed chiefly for the Use of Schools.
  Part I. STATICS. By HARVEY GOODWIN, M.A., late Fellow and
  Mathematical Lecturer of Gonville and Caius College. Price 6_s._

      Cambridge: JOHN DEIGHTON.
      London: GEORGE BELL; and SIMPKIN, MARSHALL, & CO.


FOLIORUM SILVULA: Selections for Translation into LATIN and GREEK VERSE,
chiefly from the University and College Examination Papers. By the Rev.
HUBERT ASHTON HOLDEN, M.A., Fellow and Assistant Tutor of Trinity
College, Editor of "Aristophanes." 8vo. Price 7_s._

  FOLIORUM CENTURI√Ü: Selections for Translation into LATIN and GREEK
  PROSE, chiefly from the University and College Examination Papers.
  By the Rev. HUBERT ASHTON HOLDEN, M.A., Fellow and Classical
  Lecturer of Trinity College, Editor of "Aristophanes." 8vo. Price
  7_s._

      Cambridge: JOHN DEIGHTON.
      London: GEORGE BELL, Fleet Street.


FIVE SERMONS preached before the University of Cambridge; the first Four
in November, 1851; the Fifth on Thursday, March the 8th, 1849: being the
Hundred and Fiftieth Anniversary of the Society for Promoting Christian
Knowledge. By the Rev. J. J. BLUNT, B.D., Margaret Professor of
Divinity. Price 5_s._ 6_d._

  By the same Author,

  1. FIVE SERMONS preached in 1845. Price 5_s._ 6_d._

  2. FOUR SERMONS preached in 1849. Price 5_s._

      Cambridge: JOHN DEIGHTON.
      London: RIVINGTONS.


PARISH SERMONS. FIRST and SECOND SERIES. By the Rev. HARVEY GOODWIN,
late Fellow of Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge. Price 6_s._ each.

      Cambridge: JOHN DEIGHTON.
      London: RIVINGTON.


PEARSON'S FIVE LECTURES on the ACTS of the APOSTLES; and ANNALS of ST.
PAUL. Edited in English, with a few Notes. By J. R. CROWFOOT, B.D.,
Lecturer in Divinity in King's College, Cambridge, late Fellow of
Gonville and Caius College. Price 4_s._ cloth.

      Cambridge: JOHN DEIGHTON.
      London: JOHN W. PARKER & SON.




Printed by THOMAS CLARK SHAW, of No. 8. New Street Square, at No. 5. New
Street Square, in the Parish of St. Bride, in the City of London; and
published by GEORGE BELL, of No. 186. Fleet Street, in the Parish of St.
Dunstan in the West, in the City of London, Publisher, at No. 186. Fleet
Street aforesaid.--Saturday, May 15, 1852.




      [Transcriber's Note: List of volumes and content pages in "Notes
      and Queries", Vol. I.-V.]

      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Notes and Queries Vol. I.                                   |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol., No.     | Date, Year        | Pages     | PG # xxxxx  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol. I No.  1 | November  3, 1849 |   1 -  17 | PG #  8603  |
      | Vol. I No.  2 | November 10, 1849 |  18 -  32 | PG # 11265  |
      | Vol. I No.  3 | November 17, 1849 |  33 -  46 | PG # 11577  |
      | Vol. I No.  4 | November 24, 1849 |  49 -  63 | PG # 13513  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol. I No.  5 | December  1, 1849 |  65 -  80 | PG # 11636  |
      | Vol. I No.  6 | December  8, 1849 |  81 -  95 | PG # 13550  |
      | Vol. I No.  7 | December 15, 1849 |  97 - 112 | PG # 11651  |
      | Vol. I No.  8 | December 22, 1849 | 113 - 128 | PG # 11652  |
      | Vol. I No.  9 | December 29, 1849 | 130 - 144 | PG # 13521  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol. I No. 10 | January   5, 1850 | 145 - 160 | PG #        |
      | Vol. I No. 11 | January  12, 1850 | 161 - 176 | PG # 11653  |
      | Vol. I No. 12 | January  19, 1850 | 177 - 192 | PG # 11575  |
      | Vol. I No. 13 | January  26, 1850 | 193 - 208 | PG # 11707  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol. I No. 14 | February  2, 1850 | 209 - 224 | PG # 13558  |
      | Vol. I No. 15 | February  9, 1850 | 225 - 238 | PG # 11929  |
      | Vol. I No. 16 | February 16, 1850 | 241 - 256 | PG # 16193  |
      | Vol. I No. 17 | February 23, 1850 | 257 - 271 | PG # 12018  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol. I No. 18 | March     2, 1850 | 273 - 288 | PG # 13544  |
      | Vol. I No. 19 | March     9, 1850 | 289 - 309 | PG # 13638  |
      | Vol. I No. 20 | March    16, 1850 | 313 - 328 | PG # 16409  |
      | Vol. I No. 21 | March    23, 1850 | 329 - 343 | PG # 11958  |
      | Vol. I No. 22 | March    30, 1850 | 345 - 359 | PG # 12198  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol. I No. 23 | April     6, 1850 | 361 - 376 | PG # 12505  |
      | Vol. I No. 24 | April    13, 1850 | 377 - 392 | PG # 13925  |
      | Vol. I No. 25 | April    20, 1850 | 393 - 408 | PG # 13747  |
      | Vol. I No. 26 | April    27, 1850 | 409 - 423 | PG # 13822  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol. I No. 27 | May       4, 1850 | 425 - 447 | PG # 13712  |
      | Vol. I No. 28 | May      11, 1850 | 449 - 463 | PG # 13684  |
      | Vol. I No. 29 | May      18, 1850 | 465 - 479 | PG # 15197  |
      | Vol. I No. 30 | May      25, 1850 | 481 - 495 | PG # 13713  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Notes and Queries Vol. II.                                  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol., No.      | Date, Year         | Pages   | PG # xxxxx  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. II No. 31 | June  1, 1850      |   1- 15 | PG # 12589  |
      | Vol. II No. 32 | June  8, 1850      |  17- 32 | PG # 15996  |
      | Vol. II No. 33 | June 15, 1850      |  33- 48 | PG # 26121  |
      | Vol. II No. 34 | June 22, 1850      |  49- 64 | PG # 22127  |
      | Vol. II No. 35 | June 29, 1850      |  65- 79 | PG # 22126  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. II No. 36 | July  6, 1850      |  81- 96 | PG # 13361  |
      | Vol. II No. 37 | July 13, 1850      |  97-112 | PG # 13729  |
      | Vol. II No. 38 | July 20, 1850      | 113-128 | PG # 13362  |
      | Vol. II No. 39 | July 27, 1850      | 129-143 | PG # 13736  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. II No. 40 | August  3, 1850    | 145-159 | PG # 13389  |
      | Vol. II No. 41 | August 10, 1850    | 161-176 | PG # 13393  |
      | Vol. II No. 42 | August 17, 1850    | 177-191 | PG # 13411  |
      | Vol. II No. 43 | August 24, 1850    | 193-207 | PG # 13406  |
      | Vol. II No. 44 | August 31, 1850    | 209-223 | PG # 13426  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. II No. 45 | September  7, 1850 | 225-240 | PG # 13427  |
      | Vol. II No. 46 | September 14, 1850 | 241-256 | PG # 13462  |
      | Vol. II No. 47 | September 21, 1850 | 257-272 | PG # 13936  |
      | Vol. II No. 48 | September 28, 1850 | 273-288 | PG # 13463  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. II No. 49 | October  5, 1850   | 289-304 | PG # 13480  |
      | Vol. II No. 50 | October 12, 1850   | 305-320 | PG # 13551  |
      | Vol. II No. 51 | October 19, 1850   | 321-351 | PG # 15232  |
      | Vol. II No. 52 | October 26, 1850   | 353-367 | PG # 22624  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. II No. 53 | November  2, 1850  | 369-383 | PG # 13540  |
      | Vol. II No. 54 | November  9, 1850  | 385-399 | PG # 22138  |
      | Vol. II No. 55 | November 16, 1850  | 401-415 | PG # 15216  |
      | Vol. II No. 56 | November 23, 1850  | 417-431 | PG # 15354  |
      | Vol. II No. 57 | November 30, 1850  | 433-454 | PG # 15405  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. II No. 58 | December  7, 1850  | 457-470 | PG # 21503  |
      | Vol. II No. 59 | December 14, 1850  | 473-486 | PG # 15427  |
      | Vol. II No. 60 | December 21, 1850  | 489-502 | PG # 24803  |
      | Vol. II No. 61 | December 28, 1850  | 505-524 | PG # 16404  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Notes and Queries Vol. III.                                 |
      +-----------------+-------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol., No.       | Date, Year        | Pages   | PG # xxxxx  |
      +-----------------+-------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. III No. 62 | January  4, 1851  |   1- 15 | PG # 15638  |
      | Vol. III No. 63 | January 11, 1851  |  17- 31 | PG # 15639  |
      | Vol. III No. 64 | January 18, 1851  |  33- 47 | PG # 15640  |
      | Vol. III No. 65 | January 25, 1851  |  49- 78 | PG # 15641  |
      +-----------------+-------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. III No. 66 | February  1, 1851 |  81- 95 | PG # 22339  |
      | Vol. III No. 67 | February  8, 1851 |  97-111 | PG # 22625  |
      | Vol. III No. 68 | February 15, 1851 | 113-127 | PG # 22639  |
      | Vol. III No. 69 | February 22, 1851 | 129-159 | PG # 23027  |
      +-----------------+-------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. III No. 70 | March  1, 1851    | 161-174 | PG # 23204  |
      | Vol. III No. 71 | March  8, 1851    | 177-200 | PG # 23205  |
      | Vol. III No. 72 | March 15, 1851    | 201-215 | PG # 23212  |
      | Vol. III No. 73 | March 22, 1851    | 217-231 | PG # 23225  |
      | Vol. III No. 74 | March 29, 1851    | 233-255 | PG # 23282  |
      +-----------------+-------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. III No. 75 | April  5, 1851    | 257-271 | PG # 23402  |
      | Vol. III No. 76 | April 12, 1851    | 273-294 | PG # 26896  |
      | Vol. III No. 77 | April 19, 1851    | 297-311 | PG # 26897  |
      | Vol. III No. 78 | April 26, 1851    | 313-342 | PG # 26898  |
      +-----------------+-------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. III No. 79 | May  3, 1851      | 345-359 | PG # 26899  |
      | Vol. III No. 80 | May 10, 1851      | 361-382 | PG # 32495  |
      | Vol. III No. 81 | May 17, 1851      | 385-399 | PG # 29318  |
      | Vol. III No. 82 | May 24, 1851      | 401-415 | PG # 28311  |
      | Vol. III No. 83 | May 31, 1851      | 417-440 | PG # 36835  |
      +-----------------+-------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. III No. 84 | June  7, 1851     | 441-472 | PG # 37379  |
      | Vol. III No. 85 | June 14, 1851     | 473-488 | PG # 37403  |
      | Vol. III No. 86 | June 21, 1851     | 489-511 | PG # 37496  |
      | Vol. III No. 87 | June 28, 1851     | 513-528 | PG # 37516  |
      +-----------------+-------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Notes and Queries Vol. IV.                                  |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol., No.       | Date, Year         | Pages   | PG # xxxxx |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol. IV No.  88 | July  5, 1851      |   1- 15 | PG # 37548 |
      | Vol. IV No.  89 | July 12, 1851      |  17- 31 | PG # 37568 |
      | Vol. IV No.  90 | July 19, 1851      |  33- 47 | PG # 37593 |
      | Vol. IV No.  91 | July 26, 1851      |  49- 79 | PG # 37778 |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol. IV No.  92 | August  2, 1851    |  81- 94 | PG # 38324 |
      | Vol. IV No.  93 | August  9, 1851    |  97-112 | PG # 38337 |
      | Vol. IV No.  94 | August 16, 1851    | 113-127 | PG # 38350 |
      | Vol. IV No.  95 | August 23, 1851    | 129-144 | PG # 38386 |
      | Vol. IV No.  96 | August 30, 1851    | 145-167 | PG # 38405 |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol. IV No.  97 | Sept.  6, 1851     | 169-183 | PG # 38433 |
      | Vol. IV No.  98 | Sept. 13, 1851     | 185-200 | PG # 38491 |
      | Vol. IV No.  99 | Sept. 20, 1851     | 201-216 | PG # 38574 |
      | Vol. IV No. 100 | Sept. 27, 1851     | 217-246 | PG # 38656 |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol. IV No. 101 | Oct.  4, 1851      | 249-264 | PG # 38701 |
      | Vol. IV No. 102 | Oct. 11, 1851      | 265-287 | PG # 38773 |
      | Vol. IV No. 103 | Oct. 18, 1851      | 289-303 | PG # 38864 |
      | Vol. IV No. 104 | Oct. 25, 1851      | 305-333 | PG # 38926 |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol. IV No. 105 | Nov.  1, 1851      | 337-358 | PG # 39076 |
      | Vol. IV No. 106 | Nov.  8, 1851      | 361-374 | PG # 39091 |
      | Vol. IV No. 107 | Nov. 15, 1851      | 377-396 | PG # 39135 |
      | Vol. IV No. 108 | Nov. 22, 1851      | 401-414 | PG # 39197 |
      | Vol. IV No. 109 | Nov. 29, 1851      | 417-430 | PG # 39233 |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol. IV No. 110 | Dec.  6, 1851      | 433-460 | PG # 39338 |
      | Vol. IV No. 111 | Dec. 13, 1851      | 465-478 | PG # 39393 |
      | Vol. IV No. 112 | Dec. 20, 1851      | 481-494 | PG # 39438 |
      | Vol. IV No. 113 | Dec. 27, 1851      | 497-510 | PG # 39503 |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Notes and Queries Vol. V.                                   |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol., No.       | Date, Year         |  Pages  | PG # xxxxx |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol. V  No. 114 | January  3, 1852   |   1- 18 | PG # 40171 |
      | Vol. V  No. 115 | January 10, 1852   |  25- 45 | PG # 40582 |
      | Vol. V  No. 116 | January 17, 1852   |  49- 70 | PG # 40642 |
      | Vol. V  No. 117 | January 24, 1852   |  73- 94 | PG # 40678 |
      | Vol. V  No. 118 | January 31, 1852   |  97-118 | PG # 40716 |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol. V  No. 119 | February  7, 1852  | 121-142 | PG # 40742 |
      | Vol. V  No. 120 | February 14, 1852  | 145-167 | PG # 40743 |
      | Vol. V  No. 121 | February 21, 1852  | 170-191 | PG # 40773 |
      | Vol. V  No. 122 | February 28, 1852  | 193-215 | PG # 40779 |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol. V  No. 123 | March  6, 1852     | 217-239 | PG # 40804 |
      | Vol. V  No. 124 | March 13, 1852     | 241-263 | PG # 40843 |
      | Vol. V  No. 125 | March 20, 1852     | 265-287 | PG # 40910 |
      | Vol. V  No. 126 | March 27, 1852     | 289-310 | PG # 40987 |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol. V  No. 127 | April  3, 1852     | 313-335 | PG # 41138 |
      | Vol. V  No. 128 | April 10, 1852     | 337-358 | PG # 41171 |
      | Vol. V  No. 129 | April 17, 1852     | 361-383 | PG # 41205 |
      | Vol. V  No. 130 | April 24, 1852     | 385-407 | PG #41254  |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol. V  No. 131 | May  1, 1852       | 409-431 | PG # 41295 |
      | Vol. V  No. 132 | May  8, 1852       | 433-455 | PG # 41419 |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol I. Index. [Nov. 1849-May 1850]             | PG # 13536 |
      | INDEX TO THE SECOND VOLUME. MAY-DEC., 1850     | PG # 13571 |
      | INDEX TO THE THIRD VOLUME. JAN.-JUNE, 1851     | PG # 26770 |
      | INDEX TO THE FOURTH VOLUME. JULY-DEC., 1851    | PG # 40166 |
      +------------------------------------------------+------------+






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Notes and Queries, Vol. V, Number 133,
May 15, 1852, by Various

